The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman
Volume 40, Number 3
January 2011
---------------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, 19 January 2011 @ 7:30 PM

MMRA Pizza Night at Pizerria Uno's in Newton
Kick off 2011 with the MMRA officers and enjoy complimentary pizza at our next meeting!

Pizzeria Uno's, 287 Washington Street, Newton, MA ~  Talk in: 146.82

MMRA will be paying for the pizza and soft drinks at the meeting.  There's no guest speaker.  K1IW will be bringing along a few pieces of MMRA equipment for members to see.  Attendees are encouraged to bring their own radio - new, antique, or just interesting for some other reason - to share with the group

Directions

To get to Uno's, take the Mass Pike to the Newton exit (the one where the hotel goes over the Pike).  Uno's is on the North side of the Pike.  The road in front of the Uno's is an oval-shaped rotary.  Take the rotary and turn right onto Bacon street, just after the restaurant.  Continue 100 feet down Bacon and turn right again into the parking garage.  Be sure to take your parking ticket with you into Uno's, as they will validate it so that your parking will be free.
----------------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the
Marlboro Public Library

Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      781-891-9079

Evenings 6 - 10 PM
Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
---------------

President‘s Corner
Bob DeMattia (K1IW)

Occasionally I receive a question about MMRA life membership.  I thought I would take this month's column to answer the question for the club.  There is currently no way to purchase a life membership.  A life membership is granted by the MMRA board to individuals with a record of exceptional service over an extended period of time.  In the MMRA's near 40-year history, only eleven people have been given this honor.  Of these 11, six are silent keys.  Potential life members are nominated and voted on at MMRA board meetings.  The decision is solely at the discretion of the board.

At our December board meeting we discussed the possibility of offering a long-term membership option to club members.  We want to preserve the honorary status of the existing life membership, so we would probably offer it in the form of a "99-year" membership or something similar.  If you have any thoughts on this (Good Idea? Bad Idea? Different options on ways to offer it? Pricing?), please send them to us at 
contact@mmra.org or to me personally at k1iw@mmra.org.

In other news, since MMRA was incorporated in 1971, next year will mark our 40th year.  We would like to celebrate this at September 2011 meeting.  If you have any ideas on what should be involved, again, please send them to the above email addresses.
---------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
-------------------

Public Service Report
Bruce Pigott —  KC1US — Public Service Coordinator 

During the past year, a number of the Association's repeaters have been used to support communications at Public Service activities.  There were seven different groups using nine repeaters on nine days at seven events.  Groups supported include the American Red Cross of Massachusetts Bay, Project Bread, the ALS Association, Jimmy Fund, Multiple Sclerosis Society and Charles River Watershed Association.  Using the formula from the ARRL Public Service Activity Report for cost of equipment, this represents a total in kind contribution of $120,000.  The Belmont and Marlboro two meter machines received the most requests for use.  These numbers do not include the monthly Eastern Massachusetts section ARES information net or the drills in November and August using the fully linked system.

To request use of any repeater, send me a message, kc1us@mmra.org, with details of the event.  Requests should be sent at least 15 days before an event, so club officers can be informed and members notified of expected use.  Repeaters can be set up either as stand alone or linked into a special configuration.

Right now Public Service activities are at a low point due to expected crystalline water precipitation.  Meetings are in progress to plan the events starting again in the Spring.  In January, the Marathon Amateur Radio Communications group will start accepting volunteers.  A link will be available on the MMRA home page.
------------------

Update on our future Sligo shelter
James Lee  —  N1DDK

The new shelter for Sligo shown to the left is mostly ready.  

Recent projects include adding Unistrut to the outside for mounting the power mast and the link antenna mast as shown in the photo below. 

The conduits that can be seen coming through the shelter in both pictures are for the feed lines.  There is a 3 inch conduit on the tower side which should be able to accommodate the repeater antennas, and there is a 2 inch conduit on the link antenna side.

For those who have not seen the inside, the last photo is a good view showing the new electrical system where all the new outlets and conduit are in  place.

The to-be-done list is fairly short with the largest project to seal the roof with a coat or two of white (or silver) roof sealant paint.  After that it is a short list of small tasks to be ready to move to the site when the big work starts.

If we have someone who is creative I would like to use black roof paint to paint the ARRL logo on the roof since you will be able to see the enclosure once installed in the satellite pictures!

I would once again like to thank the many people who have helped Bob and me work on the enclosure.  Here's to a new enclosure at the Sligo site early in the new year.
-------------

MMRA's newest repeater in on the air 

The 442.250 repeater, K1LVF/R, is located at Saints Medical Center in Lowell. Most of the repeater was formerly the privately owned K1ST repeater, on the same frequency at the former 3Com headquarters in Marlborough. When owner Steve Tolf (K1ST) lost access to the Marlborough site it was removed from service. Later, Steve donated the equipment to the club. The repeater was stored at the MMRA Weston repeater site until a new location for it could be found. Bob, K1IW, through a conversation with Terry, KA8SCP at the October 2010 NEAR-FEST found that Saints was looking to host an amateur repeater. Bob had a conversation with Ron (a non-ham at the time) and Ken, N1GYG at Saints and a new site was found. Shortly thereafter, Ron passed his ham exam and is now club member KB1UXT.

In early November, Bob delivered the antenna and cable to Saints and Ken installed them. Simultaneously, Bob set out to outfit the repeater with a new rack, controller, and link radio (see below). On December 20, the repeater was connected to the feedlines and with long time club member K1LVF, Vince, as trustee, the repeater was on the air!

The repeater consists of a GE Mastr II mobile transceiver. Originally, it was installed in a weatherproof cabinet. Since the cabinet was no longer appropriate for the new location, K1IW built the radio, duplexers, and receive preselector into a Mastr II base station rack. The rack was from a commercial VHF Mastr II which Will, N1PXA, had donated to the club a few months earlier. The VHF base station was removed from the rack and kept for future use. The VHF's base station power supply stayed in the rack and is now used to power the new repeater. Previously, Steve had used a Astron power supply which the club now may use for other purposes. The Mastr II mobile is firmly bolted into the rack using some heavy-duty aluminum angle iron from Home Depot.



In addition to the cabinet transfer, Bob, K1IW, disabled the internal NHRC repeater controller and installed an "MMRA Standard" SCOM 7K controller. The NHRC still serves as a way to interconnect the SCOM controller and internal TS64P ComSpec tone encoder/decoder. Bob also added a Motorola M120 UHF link radio, allowing Lowell to link into the MMRA network.



The antenna is a Diamond X300 which was also part of the original K1ST repeater. For the link, we chose the solid performing PCTEL Maxrad 5-element Yagi antenna.
---------------

MMRA December Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

MMRA Board Meeting minutes recorded by Bob Evans, MMRA Clerk

The MMRA board met on the evening of December 14th at the offices of Stratus Technologies in Maynard.  In attendance were:  K1RJZ, K1KWP, N1NVK, N1BDA, WA1NVC, W1BRI, K1IW, N1BE, N1DDK, KC1US and W1MPN.  The meeting began at 7:09 PM and the following items were discussed.

Treasurer report
Kevin, K1KWP, provided an eight-page report with many details of the club finances.  Highlights include: $1204 spent since the last board meeting.  For this fiscal year, so far, income exceeds spending by $684.  A breakdown by income sources and expenses was shown.  MRW power consumption history shows an expected usage jump, almost doubling, when the 900 MHz repeater was installed in 2009.  Dues for one member were collected at the meeting.

Repeater Status
At this point in the meeting, Bruce, KC1US was unanimously appointed by the board as the new trustee of 146.715 in Burlington.  Except as noted below, all repeaters are operating normally.  For more up-to-date status of the repeaters, please check the individual repeater web pages on the www.mmra.org web site.

The 449.575 MHz repeater for Southborough is still undergoing work in Bryan's (W1BRI) garage.  Cables have been made for  this repeater.

The 145.160 MHz Boston D-Star repeater is off the air.  K3FG is working on modifications to a GE Mastr-II radio for this application.  The radio has been re-crystaled; it now has .2uV sensitivity.  Bryan suggests still using a DCI filter.  Cables are in.  We still need to make sure this radio works with the D-Star controller and expect it to be ready to install in 1 or 2 months.

A new MMRA repeater, on 442.25 MHz is ready for installation at Saint's Medical Center, a hospital in Lowell.  Installation  is planned for Monday December 20th.  Output is about 25W out of duplexers; and a Diamond X300 antenna will be used.  This site is near the Merrimack River without much height.  For linking, the path to HUB1 looks OK but the path to HUB2 is challenging.  Influenced by this activity, one hospital employee got licensed and now has joined the MMRA.  K1LVF will be the trustee.

At the meeting, a newly purchased Mastr-II was delivered to Bryan for use to re-work the 224.40 MHz Quincy repeater.

Mendon 146.61 MHz was de-linked because when linked, it pumps and continuously beeps.

W1OJ's affiliated repeater on 29.62 MHz seems down permanently and mention of that repeater was dropped from the MMRA web site.

Bryan plans to rebuild HUB2 with a new radio after the winter.

Strategy to get approval for the MRW shelter replacement.
James, N1DDK showed pictures of the refitted shelter and discussed the work already completed.  Now that it has been cleaned up, this really is a good looking shelter.  Then James walked us through about 10 more work items to get the new shelter ready for installation.   The shelter is almost ready to go.  The board discussed strategies going forward for the relocation of the shelter.

Discussion about MMRA life membership
MMRA has been approached by members interested in a "life membership".  We discussed what this would mean.  Is it a benefit to the club?  Should we offer individual "99-year" dues fee at a discount, to distinguish this from honorary life  memberships awarded for outstanding contributions to the MMRA over an extended period of time.  We also considered limiting awarding life memberships to no more than one per year.  This discussion became food for thought with no action taken.  This item was proposed for further consideration at the February board meeting.

Plans for the Marlborough Flea
Roger, WA1NVC will be present and agreed to coordinate the table.

Newsletter
Board members were reminded of the December 31 deadline for article submissions.

Other business
KC1US gave a brief Public Service report mentioning repeater usage for the previous year.  He plans to supply more details  in a separate newsletter article.

The meeting adjourned at 8:45 PM.
-----------------
2010—2011 Membership Meetings

19 January Meeting 
Pizzeria Uno, Newton MA ~ 7:30 PM
MMRA Mid-Winter Pizza Gathering

16 March Meeting 
Milton Public Library ~ 7:30 PM
Ed Perry, WATD 95.9 Radio 

18 May Meeting 
TBD ~ 7:30 PM
MMRA General Elections and ????

Board of Directors Meetings

Wed, Feb 16	Conexant, Waltham 	
Wed, Apr 20	No meeting in April
Wed, Jun 15	Kennedy's Pub, Marlboro
-----------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net


The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

We need another net control!  If you would like to try your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org  – we have a script you can use.  

Current Net Control Operators:
Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	???		shared	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks

To connect using the digital modes during the Net, use the New England Reflector:
	For IRLP use node 9127
	For Echolink, connect via *NEW-ENG*.  You can find this under “Node Types” >> “Conferences”
--------------

MMRA Leaders
Officers
President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2011		Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director  »2011		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2012		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2012		Mike Neilsen	W1MPN

Repeater Trustees, Appointed
Belmont 145.430		Larry Arone	WA1RTT
Boston 927.0625		Rick Zach	K1RJZ
Brookline 146.820	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
Burlington 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Hopkinton 223.940	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Lowell 442.250		Vince De La Flor K1LVF
Marlboro 53.810, Quincy 146.670, Southboro 449.575
			Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
Marlboro 144.390, 145.160, 147.270, 224.880, 449.925, Weston 442.700, 927.700 — all as W1MRA
			Bill Northup	N1QPR
Mendon 146.610		Jim Podsiadlo	AE1C
Quincy 224.400		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
Weston 146.790		Bob Evans	N1BE
Weston 224.700		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM

Appointed, non-Voting
Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Emergency  Coord.	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Public Service Coord.  	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Web Page Editor		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
-------------

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

5 Feb 	Chelsea ME AARA 	   @CrystalFalls
12 Feb 	Windsor CT 	VR+C Mus 	   @115 Pierson LN
19 Feb 	Marlborough MA AARC 	   @MS
20 Feb 	Westford MA GBARC 	   @Regency Antique
27 Feb 	Hicksville NY LIMARC 	   @LevitHall
  5 Mar 	Feeding Hills MA MtTARA   @TurnverneinClb
19 Mar 	Dayville CT ECARA 	   @StJosephCh
20 Mar 	Southington CT SARA 	   @HS
25 Mar 	Lewiston ME ME AARC 	   @ Ramada
26 Mar 	Middleetown NY OCARC 	   @CommCtr
27 Mar 	Henniker NH CVRC 	   @CommSch
  3 Apr 	Framingham MA FARA 	   @KeefeTech
16 Apr 	Manchester NH NHAntqRC @Bingo
----------------

END OF NEWSLETTER
