The Minuteman

Volume 53    SPECIAL    August2024
© 2024 MMRA

The Minuteman Repeater Association is a non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.
----------

SPECIAL EDITION!

Northeast HamXposition 2024
and ARRL New England Division Convention

Best Western Royal Plaza Hotel & Trade Center 
Marlborough, Massachusetts 
https://hamxposition.org/
----------

MMRA is Official Provider of Talk-In for the Convention

Across Eastern and Central Massachusetts, we have
23 FM repeaters on all bands – 10M to 33cm

Includes 2 D-STAR repeaters, 2 Yaesu System Fusion
capable repeaters, 4 IRLP nodes (two with Echolink),
and APRS Digi.
----------

Come visit us in the Main Hallway (across from the exhibit hall) where you can meet some of our members, join our club, and enter for a chance to win one of our great door prizes.

Membership not required to win, and you don’t have to be present to win. 

Winners drawn Sunday at noon
First Prize:  YAESU VX-6R  144 / 220 / 430 HT
Second Prize:  Weller WE1010NA 70W digital soldering station & Digital Multimeter
Third Prize:  JUMBOSPOT MMDVM Hotspot
----------

Please stop by our booth and fill out our member survey.
----------

Find our Fox Box, somewhere on the hotel grounds.
The MMRA Fox Box transmits on 145.63MHz with a 146.2 Hz PL.  Transmissionsrepeat ~ 165 seconds. It will be moved to a 2nd location Friday afternoon and a 3rd on Saturday afternoon.
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH 

Welcome to HamXposition!
Please stop by and say hello.  We are located in the main hallway, across from the vendor area. While you are there you can renew your membership (memberships expire this month) and sign up for the raffle.

Fox Box: The MMRA Fox Box will be deployed during the convention.  Brush up on your Radio Direction
Finding skills and try to locate the box.  

VE Exams:  There are three license exam sessions at HamXposition: check:  HamXposition - License Exam Sessions or contact Ron – WO1E at ve@mmra.org or wo1e@mmra.org.  Please remember to bring a State ID, your FRN, and if upgrading an Official copy of your current license.
  
Membership renewal:  All MMRA memberships expire on August 31.  Please check your profile and if your membership has expired or will expire soon, please renew.  If you will not be attending HamXposition, renewals may be done on the website, or you can mail your renewal to Minuteman Repeater Association, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01775-0669.  Please allow 7 days for us to process your renewal. Please allow 14 days for
renewals that are mailed.  While you're on the website (https://www.mmra.org) checking your expiration date, please verify your email address.

Tuesday Net:  Join us Tuesday nights at 8:00 PM for our weekly Technical Information and Other Stuff (TIaOS) net.  There is always a lively discussion on all sorts of HAM issues, including equipment, antennas, software,
repeaters, and other stuff.  The main purpose is to test our ability to link up the repeaters in case of an
emergency or to support an event like the Boston Marathon.   You can also join via EchoLink if your radio is a little under the weather.  See below for more information.

You can find out more information about how and when the repeaters are linked on the website:

(https://www.mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html).

Please remember to keep your profile up to date, especially if your email changes.  Note that if your callsign changes, send email to contact@mmra.org and we will update your callsign in the database.
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER

