                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             
The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman

Volume 38, Number 5	May 2009

-------------------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, 20 May 2009 @ 7:30 PM

Astronomy Night (and General Elections)

The Clay Center Observatory

Alan Sliski —  Chief Technology Officer, Orbital Therapy LLC

Mr. Sliski will give a brief history of SETI and talk about the recent development of OSETI, the optical search for extraterrestrial intelligence at Harvard’s Oak Ridge Observatory, as well as a peek at the technology behind a new generation of radiation therapy equipment.  A brief demonstration of a plasma loudspeaker will be also attempted.

Talk in — 146.82

A serial entrepreneur, inventor, physicist, engineer, and amateur astronomer, Mr. Sliski is a generalist in the age of specialization with 26 patents issued and is a co-founder of
Orbital Therapy, a start-up designing radiation therapy equipment for treating breast cancer.

Mr. Sliski has worked in a variety of start-up companies in the 128 region and also at the Harvard physics department.  He has worked with Paul Horowitz in designing a new generation of SETI instruments, looking for nanosecond flashes of light from distant civilizations.

-----------------

Nominating Committee Report

President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern,	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
Director, 2009-11	Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director, 2009-11	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC

------------------

US Mail 
Newsletter is 
$10/year for all new and 
renewing members.

------------------

Membership Meeting ~ 20 May — 7:30PM
Astronomy Night (and General Elections)
The Clay Center Observatory

Talk in freq: 146.82			More information on Page 1

We will be meeting at The Clay Center Observatory, 20 Newton Street, Brookline, MA 02445. The Clay Center information phone number is 617-454-2718 Please monitor the talk-in on 146.82 in case we must make a last-minute change of plans.

From the West:
Follow Route 9 into Brookline. At the intersection with Chestnut Hill Ave near the Brookline Reservoir turn south onto Lee Street, keeping right at merge with Clyde Street. Continue to the end at the traffic lights and get in left lane. Turn left onto Newton Street, stay in right lane, and look for red tile and stucco buildings on your right. Turn right onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.) (Private Way) For the Clay Center: Take 2nd right through main gate, travel up the hill, bear LEFT, over top of hill, and park on Athletic Center roof deck.

From the East:
Follow the Jamaicaway into Jamaica Plain. Follow the Jamaicaway south, keeping Jamaica Pond on your right. (Ignore the Pond Street that goes east at the pond.) When the road is split by a tree-lined park, get in the right lane and turn right at the traffic lights onto the Pond Street that heads west, up hill, and around many sharp curves. When the road straightens out look for Hopkins Road on your left. Take your next left onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.) (Private Way). For the Clay Center: Take 2nd right through main gate, travel up the hill, bear LEFT, over top of hill, and park on Athletic Center roof deck.

From the South:
Follow the VFW Parkway into West Roxbury. After Corey Street get in left lane. Look for signs for "Village at Chestnut Hill" and Bertucci's. Turn left onto Independence Drive, follow through lights, then straight through rotary onto Grove Street. Stay in right lane, and go straight ahead at lights by Exxon Station. You are now on Newton Street. Follow Newton Street through traffic lights at Clyde Street. Stay in right lane, and look for red tile and stucco buildings on your right. Turn right onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.) (Private Way). For the Clay Center: Take 2nd right through main gate, travel up the hill, bear LEFT, over top of hill, and park on Athletic Center roof deck.

-----------------

Boston Area Hams Provide Communications Support for Annual Marathon
Copyright © 2009, American Radio Relay League, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

More than 250 Amateur Radio operators provided communication support for the 113th running of the Boston Marathon on Monday, April 20, also known as Patriots' Day. With more than 26,000 official runners and 500,000 spectators along the 26 mile route, the marathon utilized amateurs at the starting line, along the course at each water and first aid station along the route, and at the finish line.

"This is the largest public service event in New England in terms of the number of Amateur Radio operators required for a one-day event, and we can always use more hams to help us," said Marathon Amateur Radio Communications (MARC) Course Coordinator Steve Schwarm, W3EVE. "We're glad that the weather was cool and the number of ambulance requests this year was lower than past years, where we had higher temperatures and more medical issues."

Even with the more temperate weather, MARC Finish Line Coordinator Paul Topolski, W1SEX, said the medical tents at the finish line were near capacity by mid-afternoon. "Hams provided communications, status and logistical issue updates between the medical tents to our finish line net control as needed," he said.

The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) was active with operations at the State Emergency Operations Center in Framingham, with their operations room acting as a Unified Command Center (UCC) for the marathon. RACES members staffed the communications room at the SEOC, and ARRL Eastern Massachusetts Section Manager Mike Neilsen, W1MPN, staffed the UCC. Neilson fed status reports on any issues along the marathon route into the operations room, as well as issues from the UCC to the operations room.

"This is the first time we've had an Amateur Radio Operator in the operations room of the UCC," said Massachusetts State RACES Radio Officer Tom Kinahan, N1CPE. "We have been coordinating with the Boston Marathon Net Control and the finish line communications in Boston to provide updates into our station and to our Amateur Radio operator in the UCC."

The Net Control center is located with a line-of-sight to the Boston area and to the entire 26 mile route in case simplex communication is required. More than a dozen repeaters were utilized to provide overlapping coverage to the marathon route. The Clay Center Amateur Radio Club, the Minuteman Repeater Association, the Framingham Amateur Radio Association and many other clubs in the New England area support the marathon operations.

With so many amateurs placed along the marathon route, ARRL Eastern Massachusetts Section Emergency Coordinator Rob Macedo, KD1CY, placed Eastern Massachusetts ARES on standby in case something went wrong along the marathon route, or a major incident occurred coincident with the marathon. "This is standard operating procedure for 'Marathon Monday'" he said. "We want our members to maintain a heightened state of awareness during the event."

Patriots' Day -- a state holiday in Massachusetts and Maine -- commemorates the anniversary of the Battles of Lexington and Concord, the first battles of the American Revolutionary War.

-------------------

MMRA March Membership Meeting

The March meeting was held jointly with the Framingham Amateur Radio Association (FARA).  Miles Mann, WF1F, told us all about SSTV on the ISS.  Miles’ presentation can be found at:
http://www.mmra.org/spacecamstatclub.pdf 

-------------------

MMRA April Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

The board met at 19:30 EDT on April 15th in the Waltham Weston Corporate Center.  Present were K1KWP, WA1NVC, K1IW, W1MPN, KC1US, W3EVE, N1BDA and N1BE.

Kevin, K1KWP spoke first with a Treasurer and membership report.  Memberships are up from last year.  173 members joined or renewed in the prior MMRA fiscal year.  This year there have been 188 new or renewing members.  As a result, there were $421 additional in dues collected this year.

Bob, K1IW led a discussion of repeater status:
- Low power out on Quincy .67 seems resolved.  Roger, WA1NVC and Bryan, W1BRI exchanged a cable on the PA and the different length seems to have alleviated false triggering of the SWR shutdown circuit.
- Burlington .715 linking issues have been resolved by K1IW via a controller reset and reloading some macros that became corrupted.
- Low receive sensitivity at Brookline .82 has not yet been resolved.  Suspicion of either feedline or antenna as the root cause has not changed from what was reported in the prior newsletter.  In the next few days Roger plans to visit the site with Bryan to label cables and install alternative antenna and feedline as a trial.
- At Belmont .43 an aux. control link is now in service.
- Weston .79 is transmitting distorted audio.  The symptoms indicate the link receiver may be off frequency.  K1IW plans to investigate this.
- Southboro .575 is not responding to touch tones.  It is also stuck linked to HUB1.  K1IW will unlink it after the meeting.  This again may be an issue with settings stored within the controller somehow getting changed.
- At the Marlboro East site trees need to be removed before they cause problems with the antennas.  Roger planned to line up some assistance to work on this since many of the officers were busy with Public Service commitments.
- HUB1 .925 is working well.  Echolink out is now being used by members.  Roger obtained a donated 100AH AGM battery for backup power on HUB1.  The board approved up to $150 to purchase a West Mountain Radio Super PWRgate PG40S Backup Power System for use in this application.  Roger will recycle some no longer useful batteries in the MRW shelter as part of setting this up.
- .27 is frequently keying up with a weak unmodulated carrier and courtesy beeps.  This goes out on the link transmitter and, due to proximity, blocks other signals from being heard by the HUB1 receiver.  Bob will disable linking by .27 for now to avoid this problem.
- Mendon .61 received audio level is too weak when connected to the network.  (No action.)

Bob reported a status update from the Mayor on Marlboro's plans for the MRW site.  Bidding has closed for the "Rehabilitation of Sligo Hill Water Tower & Appurtenant Work".  The bids were about $200K higher than expected, but this is under negotiation.  Bob thought the City would make a final go or no-go decision in this cycle rather than deferring that for another round of bidding.  This mostly has impact only on the antenna work MMRA needs to perform at that site.  Replacement of the MRW radio shelter is being pursued regardless of the tower work.  We are waiting for the new shelter to be transported from Maine to Massachusetts.

Bruce, KC1US, gave an overview of public service events using MMRA repeaters for the next few weeks.  Between now and May 3rd: the Boston Marathon, Run of the Charles, and Walk For Hunger.  Bob is referring all public service requests on to Bruce.

No action was taken on the possible bylaw changes discussed in the last newsletter as the bylaws already cover those issues.

The board discussed nominations for next month's election of officers and directors.  All incumbents ending their term and present at this board meeting agreed to be nominated for the office they currently hold.  This covered every office except Secretary.  For this position, K1KWP and K1IW are pursuing nominations from past officers and members who have expressed an interest in getting more involved with the MMRA.

This left us with a few quick discussions.
- Since it is spring we got the yearly query about what is the MMRA doing about Field Day.  We took no action since the active board members have already committed their available time to repeater and public service projects.  There can be an MMRA Field Day, but someone would have to step forward to coordinate the event.  This is not a huge effort, and there would be support from the board.  So if this interests you, please step forward via an e-mail to contact@mmra.org.
- VOIP access -- there have been queries about non-members who would like to use the MMRA system to initiate outbound connects via Echolink.  The MMRA is an open system, but this action requires entering the user code in touch tones.  The board suggests that a non-member make a request by voice for someone to enter the access code, and encourage members to be helpful to the visitor when a situation like this arises.
- Finally we discussed a picnic/fox hunting event for some time in the Summer.  This would combine a ride along with the fox hunters and a club barbecue, in the style of the past foxathon and mobilathon events.  We are looking for a public park site for the BBQ, somewhere along route 128 in the Newton to Bedford area would be ideal.  Parking and access fees are important considerations.

The meeting adjourned at 21:40.

-------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928

-----------------

April Treasurer’s Report
Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Income	   Dues			$5307
	   Donations		  939
	   Misc.		  425
	   Total		$6681

Number of members this year	=  188
Number not renewed from last year = 24
	
Expenses  Spent to date		$4892
	   Expected expenses	  115 
	   Total		$5007

Discretionary Funds 		$1674

--------------

MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			Dan Rajczyk		N1KJN
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2008-10		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2008-10		Mike Neilsen		W1MPN
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency  Coordinator		open
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	Bruce Pigott		KC1US
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW

-------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM

Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net


The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

We need another net control!

If you would like to try your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	???		OPEN	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks

-----------------

Calendar of Ham Radio Events

Public Service Events 
See this web site for contact information
http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

May 16 	Westford MA 	Apple Blossom Parade
May 17 	Devens MA 	Parker Classic Road Race
Jun  7 	Boston MA 	Bikes Not Bombs bike rides
Jun 27, 28 Quincy MA 	MS Cape Cod Getaway
Jul 3-5 Fitchburg MA 	Fitchburg Longsjo Classic
Jul 25 	Devens MA 	emory Ride for Alzheimer's
Jul 26 	Haverhill MA 	Cycle for Shelter
Aug  8 	Stratham NH 	MS Seacoast Escape
Sep 11-13 Cape Cod MA 	MS Challenge Walk 
Sep 26 	Berkshires MA 	MS Bike&Hike the Berkshires
Oct 11 	Boston MA	BAA Half Marathon 

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas


17 May  Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT
23 May 	Vernon CT	NARC @TolandAg
30 May 	Rochester NY	RARA New Location
30 May 	Goshen CT 	SoBerksARC @Fairgrnd Rte63
6 June 	Hermon ME	PSARC @HS	
13 June Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN	
20 June Newington CT	NARL @StMarySch	
21 June  Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT	
25 July N Haven CT 	@HI I91x12 	
8 Aug 	Gales Ferry CT	RASON @VFD 	
8 Aug 	St Albans ME	PARC   	
15 Aug 	Swamton VT	STARC I89x21 	
12 Sept Windsor ME	AARA @FG 	
12 Sept Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN	
13 Sept Newtown CT	CARA@TownHall	
19 Sept Forestdale RI 	RIFMRS @VFW rt146	
19 Sept Alton NH 	MASONS @Lodge

-----------------

END OF NEWSLETTER