The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  

The Minuteman

Volume 44, Number 4
March 2015
----------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, Mar 18 ~ 7 PM

Dick Frey - WA2AAU

VHF CONTESTING – Let’s Just Do It

The presentation will be about VHF contesting, how it works, and why it is fun.  It will cover various aspects such as how to get involved, how far you can talk, what is a rover station. It will use lots of examples from the W2SZ contest operation, but will talk about how just anyone can get involved either from home or from his car on some hilltop. 

Dick is President of the New England Weak Signal Group, the premier VHF/UHF club in the Northeast.  NEWS is dedicated to weak signal work on 50 MHz and up.  Dick is also President of the Mt. Greylock Expeditionary Force (W2SZ— the VHF contest group on Greylock Mt.)

Now an Extra Class licensee, Dick was first licensed as a Novice in 1962 while still in High School.  While at RPI in Troy, NY, for his EE degree he first participated in VHF contests from W2SZ.  W2SZ moved to Mt. Greylock in 1969 and has operated from there ever since.  He built and currently operates the 2, 3, & 5 GHz stations on Mt. Greylock. He has helped lots of hams get on the air on the microwave bands over the years.

Dick will be traveling from west of Albany, New York to present at our meeting.  Don’t miss this special presentation.

Location: Tatnuck Bookseller, Westborough, MA
----------

Directions to 
Tatnuck Bookseller
 18 Lyman Street (Lyman at Route 9) Westborough, MA 01581

>From the North/South/East: Take I-495 to the route 9 interchange in Westborough. Head West on route 9 to the Lyman street traffic light. Take a left onto Lyman street. Tatnuck Bookseller will be about 1/2 mile down Lyman on your right.

>From the West: Take route 9 east to the Lyman street traffic light in Westborough. Turn right onto Lyman Street. Tatnuck Bookseller will be about 1/2 mile down Lyman on your right. 
----------

About the Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern Massachusetts.

The MMRA meets (usually) on the 3rd Wednesday of each month from September to June.  Meeting times, locations, and talk-in frequency vary and are announced in this newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.  Guest speakers and programs of general interest occur in September, November, January, March, and May.  The intervening meetings are also open to all members and are for general business.

The Minuteman newsletter is Emailed one week before each general interest meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles which can be sent to the editor at 
newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.

Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!

Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.

Email to the club leadership should be sent to 
contact@mmra.org. The MMRA maintains a web site at:  http://www.mmra.org/

An email distribution list for club members named “MMRA” is at: www.yahoogroups.com/.  

You can also follow us on twitter @mmraham and like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mmraham.

No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
----------

MMRA QRM Policy

MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater 
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective way (and probably the only effective way) to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident.  Measures are being taken to make audio recordings of repeater activity.
----------

President’s Corner ~ Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Sligo: Enough Said…

There is no access to the Sligo shelter. We can’t get into it to fix anything.

Photo 1: They didn't plow the walkway.  Here is the view of the baseball field from the parking lot.
Photo 2: Once you climb over the snow pile, you see this.
Photo 3: A little closer.
Photo 4: As close as I wanted to get.  Feet are getting cold now...
----------

February Business Meeting ~ Bob Evans, Clerk, N1BE

The MMRA board met on Feb 12, 2015 at 7:00 PM in the Maynard office of Stratus Technologies for a business meeting.  In attendance were K1KWP, K1IW, N1DDK, N1BDA, W1MPN, N1BE, W3EVE, WA1NVC, KG1H and K1BOS.  Also present were two visitors from the BAA Amateur Radio Subcommittee to discuss public service at the Boston Marathon: K6MCF - Matthew Forman and KD1CY - Rob Macedo. 

The agenda covered the following points. 

(1) Treasurer & Membership Report
K1KWP presented current account balances and spending for this fiscal year both to date and projected to the end of the year.  Big ticket items are: the Slygo tower project (61% of total projected expenses), and electricity for MRW is 14%.  Kevin then discussed income sources and amounts followed by an analysis of income verses expenses for the current and last several years.

Paid memberships have been climbing slowly and with 14 families plus 204 individuals, we now have the greatest number of paid members in the last ten years.  Unfortunately, 37 memberships from the previous year have expired.  Now that the Sept. to Dec. membership grace period has ended, newsletters are no longer provided and a few non-MMRA repeaters have lost affiliation. 

(2) Marlborough flea - Saturday Feb 14.

The MMRA VE team will give exams at the flea.  Bob, K5TEC will man the table with Dave Gilman, KC1DDH.

(3) Boxboro - August 2015

The board voted to approve an expenditure not to exceed $500 to purchase door prizes for those who pay MMRA dues at the convention.  We agreed to purchase a UHF antenna analyzer for about $300 and a few HTs.  A 6-meter antenna that was previously donated to the MMRA was also proposed as a prize.

 (4) 449.575 Relocation

We have been notified that the EMC ARC wants to put their 448.375 repeater back on the air.  This means we have to find a new location for 449.575.  The board approved a motion to relocate this repeater from Southborough to Hopkinton, subject to approval of necessary expenses.  Members will be asked to approve this expenditure at the March MMRA meeting. 

(5) Boston Marathon

Rob and Matthew discussed issues that led to the new leadership of ham communications for this event.  Perhaps most significantly, due to problems mostly in non-ham communications areas, there is a comprehensive review of marathon communications.  This review is overdue since many types of communications are used and the growth of these has not been well coordinated in the past.

Then they discussed the ham radio teams: Start, Course, Transport, Net Control facility, Finish, and interface to Public Safety; with a BAA Amateur Radio Subcommittee member leading each.  Although there are a few new people in the leadership positions, many of the BAA subcommittee members have experience relevant to their current roles.  The relationship between hams and the BAA is more formally defined.

The BAA has specifically authorized subcommittee members to be captains of the teams.  Delegation of some tasks is expected.  But authority is being concentrated in the BAA and public service.

Further details were discussed and many of the MMRA board members raised issues with what is being proposed for 2015.  A meeting of some BAA subcommittee members and key MMRA members who led marathon communications in the past has been proposed for the week after next.  Hopefully, planning will make significant progress since tonight there is less than 7 weeks left before the event. 

The meeting adjourned at 9:45 PM.
----------

Next MMRA Business Meeting: Wednesday 16 April, 7PM
Stratus, Maynard
----------

Have you renewed your
membership yet?
All 2014 memberships expired on August 31st! 
Time to renew either on the Member's login link at www.mmra.org or by U.S. 
Mail with a check to MMRA, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01665.
----------

Hunting the PART Fox Boxes ~ Bob Evans, N1BE

At the November MMRA meeting we saw a presentation by W1FDR about the PART (Police Amateur Radio Team of Westford) fox boxes (radio transmitters) hidden outdoors to be found by others.  I like this kind of challenge and decided to check it out.  For each of the last few weeks, fox boxes were placed on conservation land in the towns of Acton, Concord, Westford and Chelmsford.  There were three or four boxes to find each weekend.

Most of the boxes transmit on 146.565 MHz but there also is one that is on 432.300 MHz.  Transmissions use FM and occur about once a minute with distinctive audio tones and a CW ID.

I have been using a 2-meter ARDF AM receiver and an old Yeasu dual-band FM HT for hunting.  To judge the direction of the fox, I use a home-made yagi:

http://theleggios.net/wb2hol/projects/rdf/tape_bm.htm 
this antenna seems to work very well for fox hunting because it has a good null to the rear.  On UHF where I have no directional antenna, I have been using the body fade technique.

Two of the 2-meter foxes transmit without any need to be triggered.  With output in the range of 15mW, the batteries still last for several days.  (The announcement email will indicate whether the particular fox box needs to be triggered.)

Other PART fox boxes must be triggered to start transmitting.  In this case, you would need to send the DTMF digit "2" for two seconds on the output frequency of the box.  If it can hear you, the fox then will transmit periodically for about 15 minutes; then you can trigger it again.

Phase one of my hunts is driving until I hear signal from the fox.  Generally this means I am within a mile or two of the box.  I get out of the car and take a directional reading and use a map to triangulate in to the general location of the fox.  Once I have a strong signal without any deep fading from mobile flutter, the fox is not far away.

Then I continue on foot, using the same triangulation technique.  When the signal is all bars with no antenna, the box is close enough to be seen.  If the signal cannot be nulled out, I use my eyes to search for an olive drab ammo box hidden under leaves or branches within 15 feet from where I am standing.  Next to the box there's a zip-lock bag with paper for sign in to claim credit for finding the fox.

The fox has always been a thousand feet or less from where there is parking for the public to access the conservation land, but of course you can walk further trying to find it.

If this interests you, consider subscribing to the PART email.  Deployment announcements and reports of who found the box is on the email list of the Police Amateur Radio Team of Westford:

http://lists.wb1gof.org/listinfo.cgi/PART-L-wb1gof.org  .   

This is a low activity list without many other messages.  Subscribing to this list is the way to be notified when foxes have been hidden.

And there is much more info about fox hunting at the Homing In web site 
http://www.homingin.com/ .

I really missed the MMRA Fox box and live hunts.  Thanks to the PART guys, I am having that fun again!
----------

January Membership Meeting Notes ~ James Lee, N1DDK

New Roles for Amateur Radio in Public Service
and Emergency Communications

Rob Macedo, KD1CY 

President Bob, K1IW, opened meeting at 7:12 pm and thanked everyone for coming.  There were 25 members in attendance.   Currently we have 233 active members, 250 total members, with  57 new members, a growth of 20 members.

All 23 repeaters are working, including the new D-Star system in Marlborough,  Bob then discussed the details of the Belmont system, repairs, and linking.   Boxborough is happening again — August 21,22,23.  Business concluded at 7:24
 
Bob then introduced Rob Macedo with our feature presentation.  Rob KD1CY talked about Public service, emergency
communications and Skywarn / severe weather spotting.

Bob also talked about earthquakes and power outages.  You can help as an observer: weather, public service, power outages etc.

Following a Q&A about how to better work with fire and other emergency services, Rob talked about the web site: wx1box.org, and the Facebook & twitter feeds:  twitter.com/wx1box and Facebook.com/wx1box.
----------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings


Wed, 18 Mar ~ Membership Meeting
VHD Contesting — Let’s Just Do It
Dick Frey - WA2AAU ~ President of both the NEWS group & W2SZ
Tatnuck Bookseller, Westborough,MA  

Wed, 15 Apr ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 20 May ~ Membership Meeting
Annual Meeting: Officers Report and General Elections
Location TBA

Wed, 17 June ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 21 July ~ Mid-summer Get Together
Location TBA

Wed, 19 Aug ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard
----------

Don’t Forget! 
Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	WA1JIM	Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	W1DYJ	Larry Banks	
Week 3 	KC1CLA	Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP	Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	KB1OQA	Tom Turner

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

MMRA Leaders
Officers
President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
* Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2015		Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director  »2015		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2016		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2016		Mike Neilsen	W1MPN

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.430	James Lee	N1DDK
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Boston 146.820	John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Brookline 145.160	Joyce DeMattia	N1QPH
* Brookline 146.820 Rcvr  Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Hopkinton 223.940	James Cahill	KB1LOY
* Lowell 442.250	Vince De La Flor  K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.810; Quincy 146.670; Southborough 449.575
			  Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.390, 147.270, 224.880,
 448.225, 449.925,927.700 — all as W1MRA
		
	Bill Northup	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.610	Jim Podsiadlo	AE1C
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Weston 146.790	Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.700	Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.700	David Wolfe	KG1H


Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	David Wolfe	KG1H
* VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW


	* Appointed
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets

For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

22 Mar	Henniker NH	CVRC	@CommSch 
27,28 Mar Lewiston ME	ME Conv @Ramada 
11,12 Apr Wakefield MA	@AmericalCtr
11 Apr	Windsor CT	VR+	115 Pierson 
12 Apr	Framingham MA	FARA	@KeefeTech 
18 Apr	S Portland ME	PAWA	@Am Legion
19 Apr	Cambridge MA	Flea at MIT
25 Apr	Brookline NH	NEARC	Antique 
25 Apr	Gales Ferry CT	RASON 	@FireHs 
1,2 May	Deerfield NH	NEARfest XVII @FG
 9 May	E Greenbush NY	EGARA	@FireCo 
17 May	Cambridge MA	Flea at MIT
30 May	Goshen CT	SoBARC	@FG
31 May	Fishkill NY	MtBARC	@QWL 
31 May	Sorel-Tracy PQ	STARC 
 6 Jun	Hermon ME	PSARA 	@HS
 6 Jun	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson
 7 Jun	Bethpage NY	LIMARC	@Briarcliffe
21,23 Aug Boxboro MA	FEMARA NE Conv
30 Aug	Adams MA	NoBARC	@BoweFld 
 5 Sep	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson 
13 Sep	Ballston Spa NY	SCRACES	@FG 
13 Sep	Newtown CT	CARA	@TownHall
19 Sep	Forestdale RI	RIAFMRS	@VFW 
20 Sep	Cambridge MA	Flea at MIT
26 Sep	Brookline NH	NEARC	Antique 
17,18 Oct Wakefield MA	@AmericalCtr 
16,17 Oct Deerfield NH	NEARfest XVIII @FG
----------

End Of Newsletter

