The Minuteman Repeater Association
----------

The Minuteman
Volume 42, Number 5
May 2013
----------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, May 22 ~ 7 PM

Observatory Telescope & Science Lab Tour

General Meeting & Elections

Clay Center Observatory, 20 Newton St, Brookline, MA

Talk-in: 146.82

>From the West:  Follow Route 9 into Brookline. At the intersection with Chestnut Hill Ave near the Brookline Reservoir turn south onto Lee Street, keeping right at merge with Clyde Street. Continue to the end at the traffic lights and get in left lane. Turn left onto Newton Street, stay in right lane, and look for red tile and stucco buildings on your right. Turn right onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.)

>From the East: Follow the Jamaicaway into Jamaica Plain. Follow the Jamaicaway south, keeping Jamaica Pond on your right. (Ignore the Pond Street that goes east at the pond.) When the road is split by a tree-lined park, get in the right lane and turn right at the traffic lights onto the Pond Street that heads west, up hill, and around many sharp curves. When the road straightens out look for Hopkins Road on your left. Take your next left onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.)

>From the South: Follow the VFW Parkway into West Roxbury. After Corey Street get in left lane. Look for signs for "Village at Chestnut Hill" and Bertucci's. Turn left onto Independence Drive, follow through lights, then straight through rotary onto Grove Street. Stay in right lane, and go straight ahead at lights by Exxon Station. You are now on Newton Street. Follow Newton Street through traffic lights at Clyde Street. Stay in right lane, and look for red tile and stucco buildings on your right. Turn right onto St. Paul's Avenue (some maps call it Mt. Walley Ave.)

Parking: For the Clay Center: Take 2nd right through main gate, travel up the hill, bear LEFT, over top of hill, and park on Athletic Center roof deck.
----------

Nominating Committee Report
President	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President	Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary	John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk		Bob Evans	N1BE
Tech. Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
Director »2015	Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director »2015	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
----------

About the Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern 
Massachusetts.

The MMRA meets (usually) on the 3rd Wednesday of each month from September to June.  Meeting times, locations, and talk-in frequency vary and are announced in this newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.  Guest speakers and programs of general interest occur in September, November, January, March, and May.  The intervening meetings are also open to all members and are for general business.

The Minuteman newsletter is Emailed one week before each general interest meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles which can be sent to the editor at newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.

Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!

Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.

Email to the club leadership should be sent to 
contact@mmra.org. The MMRA maintains a web site at:  http://www.mmra.org/

An email distribution list for club members named “MMRA” is at: www.yahoogroups.com/
No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
----------

MMRA QRM Policy

MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater 
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective way (and probably the only effective way) to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident.  Measures are being taken to make audio recordings of repeater activity.
----------

Repeater and Frequency Information

Up-to-date information about both MMRA repeaters and affiliate repeaters can be found at 
http://www.mmra.org/repeaters/index.html
----------

Notice of Club Vote

Per the MMRA bylaws, you are hereby informed that the club will be voting to approve an expense in excess of $500 at the May 22 meeting.

Reauthorization of Sligo and Belmont purchases, previously approved in July 2012.  These two items were overwhelmingly approved by the club in July 2012.  Due to unforseen circumstances, the purchases were not completed prior to the end of the club's fiscal year.  This vote is to reauthorize the purchases for an additional fiscal year.

Here are the descriptions from last years online ballot:

Bob next led a discussion of replacement antennas and other expenses related to rebuilding the tower by the City of Marlborough at MRW. At present all MMRA antennas are off the tower, several hundred feet lower near the shelter. However, there is much uncertainty about whether our shelter will need to be moved and where MMRA antennas will be finally positioned. The discussion suggested optimistically for two replacement VHF and UHF antennas, for a 6-meter antenna, + for tower climbers, + for coax/cable trays and to move the shelter. We ask the membership to allow the board to spend up to for this purpose.  Authorize the MMRA board to expend up to $8000 for work at Sligo as detailed in the MMRA meeting minutes from June 20, 2012.

The 145.43 repeater is located at the house of the previous trustee, WA1RTT. MMRA fixed this repeater multiple times. Now that WA1RTT has become a silent key we need to consider the disposition of this repeater. Several components of this repeater belong to the widow of WA1RTT. K1IW proposed offering the widow for the power supply, Vocom PA, duplexer and rack with RF metering so that except for antenna and feedline, the MMRA will completely own the 145.43 repeater. The board approved polling the membership to approve this expenditure. Authorize the purchase of the 145.43 Power Amplifier, Duplexers and Astron Power Supply from the estate of WA1RTT for the sum of $600.

The reauthorization will be taken as one vote.  The $8000 sligo figure is an estimate, and we will have a more accurate figure by the 22nd, but it shall not exceed $8000.
----------

Report on April 10 Technical Meeting

Bob DeMattia — K1IW 

The April 10th MMRA meeting was a bit different from most - there were no guest speakers, and no treasurer reports.  Instead, MMRA held an informal discussion with members interested in participated in the upkeep of our systems.  Nineteen members attended, and there were several more that expressed interested but had other commitments.

A few things are already in the works from this meeting, including a rebuild of the 10m repeater receiver by KB5JR.  N1ZZN will be looking into the poor receiver performance in Burlington.
Other members signed up for all sorts of things.  I will provide a list in another week or two - I'm still recovering from a very busy month.

Other things on tap:
	* VPN install at Sligo
	* Marlborough East shed cleanup
	* Installation of exhaust fan at Sligo
	* Replacement of mast at Weston
----------

President’s Corner ~ Marathon Thoughts

Bob DeMattia — K1IW 

As you know, 245 amateur radio operators participated as volunteers at this years Boston Marathon.  For many of us, the events of April 15th are a fading memory.  But others will have had their lives permanently changed.   
 
Let us remember with sadness the innocent lost life of Martin Richard, an 8-year-old boy who probably wouldn't even understand the cause that drove the vicious murderers to kill him.  For Krystle Campbell, a 29-year-old restaurant manager who often worked 70 hour weeks.  For Lu Lingzi, the 26-year graduate student from Beijing, whose parents now suffer the loss of their only child.  And for officer Sean Collier, viciously murdered in his patrol car the following Thursday night.  None of these four individuals, nor the several hundred injured, nor the thousands of relatives and friends of all these people had anything to do with what is going on thousands of miles away.

The United States welcomed two insane zealots, gave them shelter, and gave them opportunities they could never have had where they had come from.  Instead of appreciating that hospitality, they let their hatred consume them, ultimately leading to  their own destruction.   Unfortunately, their path of destruction injured and killed a lot of other people.  The zealots may have injured us, but their actions have only served to offend and anger us - and to make the cause which they try to force upon us only more detestable.  While the memories will undoubtedly fade over time, I hope that we will strengthen our resolve to protect the American way of life.  

We live in a tough and competitive society.  Americans enjoy far less vacation and work longer hours than our counterparts in most other countries.  But we also enjoy the most opportunities to do what we want to do, and live our lives the way that want to live them.
----------

Results of MMRA Membership Survey
Bob DeMattia — K1IW

At the end of March, members were invited to participate in a membership survey.  The survey asked members opinions on the clubs activities, officers, and repeater systems. A total of 106 members participated; not all answered every question. 

80 responded to "I use MMRA repeaters".  36 responded more than once a week, the rest responded once or less per week.

On whether members preferred the repeaters linked or unlinked, most stated  no preference.  For those that expressed a preference, there was a six vote margin for linking - 20 to 14.

Not surprisingly, 2m was the most popular band, with 77 respondents saying they are active on this band.  This was followed by 440, 6m, 902, 222, and 10m with responses of 60, 31, 21, 20, and 15 respectively.

As for the MMRA repeater usage, 449.925 came in first with 25 members.  146.61, 82, and 147.27 were second with 18 or 19 users.  53.81, 927.0625, 146.715. and 224.70 were in the third tier, all in the range 11 to 17.  This group beat out the remaining repeaters who had responses from 10 (146.79 and 927.7000) down to 2 (224.88).

Also not surprisingly, FM was the most popular mode with 60 responses.  The second favorite was APRS with 18.  With 12 responses, D-Star beat out both P25 (6) and DMR (5).

The majority strongly agreed or agreed that MMRA should continue to maintain its existing repeaters.  There were some differences band-to-band, with 2M having the largest spread (99 positive to 1 negative) and 10M having the smallest (56 to 4).

When it comes to building new systems, members again were generally positive, though by smaller margins.  440 got the widest spread here (37 to 5), while 10M got the smallest (17 to 13).  As for the three digital modes, D-Star was 35 to 22, DMR was 25 to 12, and P25 was 21 to 16.

Members were generally satisfied with how the officers of the club are performing.  91.5% of the respondents felt officers did a good job maintaining our existing systems.  85% agreed with the officers decisions regarding improvements, and 87% felt that officers did a good job communicating with membership.

Do members like our meetings?  Only 31% of respondents indicate that they always or sometimes attend meetings.  47% say they rarely do.  However, the meeting topics are generally well-liked with 73% rating them excellent or good.  Only 58% like our meeting locations, but 70% like our choice of  Wednesday meeting nights.

Finally, the big question - how likely are they to renew?  99 respondents said they were very or somewhat likely to renew.  3 said they weren't sure.  1 said "small chance".  There were three that did not respond to this question.  Would they recommend to a friend who asked if it is a good idea to join?  103 said definitely join or maybe while the remainder were neutral or no response.  (Author's note: It is interesting that 103 people would recommend our club to another ham, but only 99 said they would probably renew.

The full survey results are available in both PDF and CSV format on our website: 
	http://www.mmra.org/survey2013.xls

	http://www.mmra.org/survey2013.pdf
----------

ARRL EASTERN MASSACHUSETTS SECTION
MAY 2013 SECTION NEWS
Section Manager (SM) - Phil Temples, K9HI

It's been an extraordinary past few weeks for the citizens of Massachusetts as well as for the entire country.  The tragic events at the Boston Marathon on Patriot's Day and the weeks following will forever be seared into our collective memories.  The bombings, subsequent violence, the lockdown, an historic manhunt, and the eventual capture of a dangerous fugitive not only shook us but led us to summon our most enduring and positive of human qualities.  We listened and watched in awe to the stories of first responders (and ordinary citizens) who rushed into harm's way to aid the injured and dying.  In the days afterward, we collectively grieved. Slowly, now, we collectively heal.

For the hundreds of Amateur Radio volunteers from across New England who came to serve that day, the Marathon was going to be a fun, routine public service event.  Sure, operators at previous Marathons have endured hardships and weather-related challenges. Temperature extremes in years past have resulted in hundreds of requests for ambulance transport to area hospitals.  One year, there was even a fatality.  But in all of the thirty-plus years of Boston Marathons in which amateurs have served, this one was without precedent. 

Amateur Radio volunteers performed admirably during the period where they were covering a normal public service event.  BAA officials in Hopkinton successfully ensured a smooth and safe start, thanks in part to efficient communications provided by the hams that shadowed them.  Checkpoints and first aid stations were able to verify and obtain needed supplies, and later, coordinate the transport of runners.  Red Cross officials who crisscrossed the course were kept in the loop always, thanks to their Amateur Radio shadows.

But then... 2:50 PM. 

Initially, rumors and vague reports surfaced.  CNN texts and other media alerts began to light up smartphones.  Phone call volume increased.  In fact, in many locations along the course, cell phone service crashed under the strain.  Soon, it was apparent to everyone that a major disaster was unfolding, and amateurs were caught up in the middle of it.  The jarring directive went out over the amateur networks to halt all runners. 

Stop the Marathon.

The BAA's mission abruptly changed, and new priorities were quickly introduced.  As Marathon volunteer Tim Carter, W3ATB of Meredith, New Hampshire succinctly puts it, "The bombs created a new set of problems.  How do the runners stay warm?  How do the runners get fed?  How do the runners get to their belongings?  How do the runners discover if their loved ones waiting at the finish are okay?  How do the runners let their loved ones know where they are?  How will thousands of runners be transported to who-knows-where?"

News coverage of the bombings and subsequent capture of the suspects has, of course, been non-stop and numbing.  Soon, for the first time the behind-the-scenes story of Amateur Radio at this Boston Marathon will appear in the volunteers' own words in the pages of QST, CQ Magazine, and the ARRL's online monthly ARES Newsletter.  I want to thank our Section Emergency Coordinator Rob Macedo, KD1CY, for helping to pull together much of the material that will appear in these stories.  Some of the other contributors include: Paul Topolski, W1SEX, District Emergency Coordinator for Worcester County, Western MA; Steve Schwarm, W3EVE, DEC for Field Operations, Eastern MA; Tim Carter, W3ATB; Carl Aveni, N1FY, Assistant SEC; Terry Stader, KA8SCP, DEC.

I'm proud of the actions of the section's ARES members and other Marathon Amateur Radio Communications consortium participants during this horrific event.  When the shock hit, amateurs shifted gears seamlessly from public service event coverage to full-blown emergency operations.  The fact that amateurs are trained and able to make such a profound transition so quickly ensures that our services will always be in demand. You have this Section Manager's sincere gratitude.
----------

Remote Receiver for the Boston 2M Repeater

Bob DeMattia — K1IW 

A few weeks ago, MMRA placed a remote receiver into service for our Boston/Back Bay repeater, located on the Prudential tower.  This receiver alleviates the receiver problems we have at the tower.

The remote receiver picks up signals on the normal 146.22 MHz input that have a PL of 146.2, and relays them to the transmitter at the Pru.  Additionally, the receiver relays these signals back to the HUB (when '82 is linked).

The Pru installation still has its own receiver, operating on a 127.3 PL.  If you are in downtown Boston out to about Kenmore Square, you may have better access using the Pru receiver.  The Pru transmitter will relay signals coming in on either receiver.  There is a 127.3 PL tone on the transmitter output.

Signals coming in through the Pru receiver are relayed BACK to the  remote receiver site, where they are further relayed back to the HUB (when '82 is linked).

There are no future plans right now, but our access to the Brookline site could permit us to add additional remote receivers.  They would all come back to Brookline where they could be voted and sent to the Pru transmitter.  By consolidating the "intelligence" of the system at the Brookline location, we can reconfigure more frequently, as we don't have to deal with the limited access we have to the Pru.

Please try out our newest system on 146.82 and let us know how it works for you!
----------

Upcoming Public Service Events
David Wolfe ~ KG1H

Brett Smith (AB1RL) asked me to pass this along to alert you to Public Service activities in May that are being supported by the Boston Amateur Radio Club.

“May has arrived with warmer weather, and that means we're thick in the middle of the public service season. There are two events in May that BARC provides support for, and both could use more help:

Saturday May 18: the MS Journey of Hope Walk in Natick. To volunteer or for more information, please contact Rick Savage, KB1LYJ: rpsavage@comcast.net, (781) 289 7364.

Sunday May 19: the National Brain Tumor Society Boston Bike Ride, from Waltham to Carlisle. To volunteer or for more information, please contact Jim Bradley, KB1JKJ: bradleyjab@gmail.com, (781) 953 8928.

Amateurs help keep these events safe and running smoothly for anyone, and it's a great feeling to be a part of that. I hope you'll join us for one of these events if you can. If you ever have questions about any of BARC's public service events, contact me at this address, or phone (859) 466 5915.”
----------

MMRA March Membership Meeting
Bob Evans ~ N1BE ~ Clerk

Members approved an expenditure not to exceed $100 to purchase a replacement mast for Weston 10-meter antenna.

Members approved an expenditure not to exceed $1500 to purchase an ICOM ID-RP-2C (D-Star capable) controller.  This was tied 8 in favor and 8 against before there was a vote by the MMRA President.  Bob, K1IW then cast an additional vote in favor based upon e-mail discussion of this issue prior to the meeting where in Bob’s opinion a majority of responders favored use of D-Star.
----------

MMRA D-Star Vote at March Meeting
Bob DeMattia — K1IW 

At the March meeting, the membership voted to approve the purchase of a D-Star controller for not more than $1500.  The membership vote was 9 to 8, with K1IW casting the deciding vote.  My decision to vote positive was based on input I had received prior to the meeting from members who were not able to attend.  After the vote was over, I was asked by a club member if the announcement about the vote had been performed according to the bylaws. 

The bylaws require 7 days advance notice.  An email announcement had gone out in a timely fashion to all members stating that the newsletter was available  on our website, and the newsletter did include information about the vote.  However, the email itself did not have information about the vote.  This is certainly a gray area.  In future emails, the board will ensure that information about pending votes is directly contained in the email.  As for the proceeding at the March meeting, I researched Roberts Rules of order, as is dictated by the club bylaws.  The rules state that if a participant feels that a procedure isn't being followed, he is required to call a point-of-order at the time it is noticed.  Once this is done, there is a defined process in place in which to  explore whether there is a problem in the voting procedure.  Having done this after voting has been closed and tabulated deprives the membership of the chance to debate the procedural issue.

Finally, I believe the overall vote is fairly representative of the overall club's opinion about D-Star.  The meeting vote was close: 9 to 8.  The recent membership survey showed an approval of 35 to 22. Also, interest in D-Star is similar to interest in other modes that the club supports: We have two 900 repeaters and 21 respondents in our survey say they are active on this band.  We have 4 222 repeaters, and 20 respondent say they are active on 222.  So having 1 DStar repeater to support the 12 respondents is proportionally similar.  Besides, actually having a D-Star repeater on the air may increase membership.

Ham radio is a very diverse hobby.  The club has a large membership base and  it's important to strive to meet the needs of everyone.  I expect that operating a DStar system will be a positive experience for the club.
----------

Next Business Meeting

Wednesday June 19, 7PM
Stratus, Maynard
----------

2012—2013 Meetings

22 May ~ Membership Meeting
Annual Meeting & Elections
Clay Center, Brookline ~ 7:00 PM

19 June ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard ~ 7:00 PM

17 July ~ Summer Get Together
Location TBA 

21 August ~ Business Meeting
Location TBA 
----------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

If you would like to try your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org  – we have a script you can use.  

Current Net Control Operators:
Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 3	KQ1Y		Tim Wortley 
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 9127
----------

MMRA Leaders

Officers
President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2014		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2014		Mike Neilsen	W1MPN
Director  »2013		Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director  »2013		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC

Repeater Trustees, Appointed
Boston 927.0625		Rick Zach	K1RJZ
Brookline 146.820	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
Burlington 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Hopkinton 223.940	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Lowell 442.250		Vince De La Flor  K1LVF
Marlboro 53.810; Quincy 146.670; Southboro 449.575

			Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
Marlboro 144.390, 147.270, 224.880, 449.925, 927.700
Belmont 145.430;  Weston 442.700 — all as W1MRA
			Bill Northup	N1QPR
Mendon 146.610		Jim Podsiadlo	AE1C
Weston 146.790		Bob Evans	N1BE
Weston 224.700		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM

Appointed, non-Voting
Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Emergency  Coord.	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Public Service Coord.  	David Wolfe	KG1H
VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Web Page Editor		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:

www.mmra.org -- Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the Marlboro Public Library

Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      781-891-9079
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets
See this web site for more information:  
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

 1 Jun	Hermon ME	PSARA @HS
 1 Jun	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN
 1 Jun	Goshen CT	So.BARC @FG
 2 Jun	Bethpage NY	LIMARC @Briarclif
15 Jun	Newington CT	NARL @StMarySch
16 Jun	Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT 
30 Jun	Queens NY	HOSARC
21 Jul	Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT
 3 Aug	St Romuald PQ	ARESdQ
10 Aug	Milo ME	PARC 	@AmLegion
18 Aug	Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT
25 Aug	N Adams MA	NoBARC @BoweFld
 7 Sep	Ballston Spa NY	SCRACES @FG
 7 Sep	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN
 8 Sep	Newtown CT	CARA @TownHall
15 Sep	Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT
21 Sep	Forestdale RI	RIAFMRS @VFW
21 Sep	Manchester CT	PVRA @MarcusComm
21 Sep	Alexander ME	StCVARC @ElSch
28 Sep	Brookline NH	NEARC Antique
 6 Oct	Queens NY	HoSARC
11,12 Oct Deerfield NH	NEARFest XIV
13 Oct	Meriden CT	Nutmeg @Sheraton
19,20 Oct Wakefield MA	Photographica @AmericalCtr
26 Oct	Gales Ferry 	TCARC Auction @FireCo
27 Oct	Hicksville NY	LIMARC @LevitHall
 9 Nov	Bourne MA	FARA @UpperCC VoTech
30 Nov	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN
----------

End of Newsletter