The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  

The Minuteman
Volume 48, Number 5
May 2019
----------

Annual Meeting & Elections 
Wednesday, 15 May 7:30 PM
Introduction to Hotspots

David Hornbaker, N1DCH 
New England Sci-Tech Inc.
16 Tech Circle   Natick MA Talkin: 147.27

Radio digital hotspots are a low power UHF (or VHF) transceiver (0.7 mw), modem, and computer that provides local RF access to reflectors on the internet.  David will discuss hotspots, their setup, and use.   Hotspots are available today supporting DStar, DMR, YSF, NXDN, and P25 plus cross mode operation (YSF to DMR, YSF to NXDN, YSF to P25, DMR to YSF and DMR to NXDN).   David will show how to build and setup hotspots supporting DStar, DMR and explore cross mode use (DMR to YSF and DMR to NXDN).  The emphasis will be on Raspberry PI based hotspots using MMDVM boards and Pi-Star.

David's interest in radio began when he was a kid and hung around the shack of his uncle 
Myron Hornbaker, W0GFU (SK), Fowler, Kansas.  He got his First-Class Radiotelephone License in 1975 (now, General Radiotelephone Operator License). He was employed by a local telephone company as an 
installer of IMTS telephones in automobiles. Later, he went to work for  Wichita, Kansas television 
station KAKE-TV as a master control operator.

David has worked in the computer industry for over 40 years.  He owns and is president of DCH Consulting Services, an Information Technology company.  He is a graduate of University Massachusetts Lowell.
----------

MMRA Officer Nominations:
 * N1DCH David Hornbaker – President 
 * WA1MDD John Spencer – Vice President 
 * K1KWP Kevin Paetzold – Treasurer 
 * KC1LAE Jason Peardon – Secretary 
 * KC1JUO Charles Miller – Clerk
 * K1IW Bob DeMattia – Director  ? 2021
 * WA1NVC Roger Colson – Director  ? 2021
----------

MMRA Control Operators Responsibilities
https://www.mmra.org/MMRACOPolicy-March2019.pdf
----------
The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public 
service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern Massachusetts.

The MMRA meets each month from September to June.  Meeting times, locations, and talk-in frequency vary and are announced in this newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.  Guest speakers and programs of general interest occur in 
September, November, January, March, and May.  The intervening meetings are also open to all members and are for general business.

The Minuteman newsletter is emailed one week before each general interest meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles: send to the editor at newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.

Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!

Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.

No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. 
----------
MMRA QRM Policy

MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater 
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective way (and probably the only effective way) to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident. 
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker , N1DCH 

Greetings to all MMRA members!

Spring has arrived!

The final version of the new Control Operator Guide is now posted on the website 
(https://mmra.org/MMRACOPolicy-March2019.pdf).  I urge all members to read the policy.

The MMRA website has moved to a new host service provider.  The new website is faster and more secure than the old site.  Thanks to Bob, K1IW for his work in getting the new site up and running.

As you may know, the 223.940 repeater has moved from Hopkinton to Marlborough West.  Unfortunately, the 220 antenna at that site is in bad shape and the repeater has had to be taken off the air due to high SWR.  The funds for the new antenna have been approved and Bob, K1IW is working to schedule a tower climber to do the install.

Elections are this month!  I urge everyone to attend the meeting which is in Natick on May 15th and vote.  Good news!  We have a full slate of candidates and no one will be doing double duty in the coming year. 

Presentations are an integral part of our membership meetings and are about an hour in length.  What would you like to see presented in the coming year, which begins in September?   Please send suggestions to the board (contact@mmra.org).

I look forward to seeing you in Natick on May 15, and hearing you on the TIOS Net, which is every Tuesday at 8:00 PM.

 73, David Hornbaker, N1DCH
----------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:
CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
-----------

March 2019 Membership Meeting

FT8: Not a Prefix, a Powerful New Mode ~ Larry Banks, W1DYJ



These are a selection of the slides from the Membership Meeting talk in March.
The full slide set is available at:  https://www.qsl.net/w1dyj/#OP .

(Two pages of slides follow -- see the website.)

FT8 is one of a new suite of powerful digital modes, using “space age” DSP and forward
error correction to improve the reception of VERY low level received signals (below the S/N ratio).  Thanks to K1JT and group.

The full slide set is available at:  https://www.qsl.net/w1dyj/#OP .
----------

From the Treasurer ~ Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Recent Donations

In previous newsletters we listed donations for the last couple years.  To continue that acknowledgment on behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to thank the individuals below for their recent donations (since the list published in the January 2019 newsletter):

KC1KVY    WA1JIM    K1LTD    K1KJR    AB1LD    NE1RD    WH6DSN    KC1US

Membership Report/Renewals

The MMRA membership year runs from September 1 until August 31 of each year.  There is a grace period for those who have not renewed from September 1 until January 1.

The chart below shows that there were 24 new members since January 1 2019.  The chart below shows that 66 people did not renew for the current membership year (which started on September 1, 2019).  64 members have already renewed for the 2019-2020 membership year.  Membership dues are by far the primary income source for the MMRA and your continued membership and dues are needed and appreciated.

[chart]

New paid members

On behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to acknowledge and welcome the individuals below who joined the MMRA since January 1:

K1JTO    K1TCK    KC1KFJ    KC1KTY    KC1KUY    KB1LBH    KC1LBI    KZ1CY    N0LOU
N1DIE     N9JBT      NN1C        W1BJ          W1FSH       W1GDK     W1SHS     WP4OFO

Newly licensed Ham Members

For several years the MMRA has been offering free memberships to new hams.  On behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to congratulate and welcome the individuals below who recently received licenses and joined the MMRA since January 1:

AG5SM       K1ENB       KC1KUZ    KC1KVM    KC1KVY    KC1KZF    KC1LAA    KC1LAB
KC1LAC    KC1LAD    KC1LAE     KC1LDZ     KC1LEA     KN6ARW
----------

17 April Business Meeting ~ Minutes
Charles Miller, KC1JUO, Clerk

Business Commenced at 18:34 at the Marlboro Library.

Present were:
Dave Hornbaker (N1DCH) President
John Spencer (WA1MDD) Vice President
Kevin Paetzoid (K1KWP) Treasurer
Charles Miller (KC1JUO) Clerk
Roger Coulson (WA1NVC) Director
Bob DeMattia (K1IW) Director
Clark Conti (N1NVK) Director
Bryan Cerqua (W1BRI) Technical Director Emeritus
Bruce Pigott (KC1US) Public Service Coordinator
Jason Peardon (KC1LAE)
Jeff Lehmann (N1ZZN) on the phone

Agenda - Reviewed circulated slides

Nominating committee report:
N1DCH David Hornbaker – President 
WA1MDD John Spencer – Vice President 
K1KWP Kevin Paetzold – Treasurer 
KC1LAE Jason Peardon – Secretary 
KC1JUO Charles Miller – Clerk
K1IW Bob DeMattia – Director  ? 2021
WA1NVC Roger Colson – Director  ? 2021

Motion to Re-approve the annual maintenance budget for$2500.  The funds are for emergency replacement of equipment, not extending functionality

Motion to purchase the centerfold for a coverage map ($250) for the HamXposition2019 @Boxboro: brochure

KC1JUO volunteered to create Simple Color Coverage Map

New Web-server - Motion to approve (vote was unanimous) at $50/year.

Discussion about PL tones North Reading & Hopkinton:
Some people are checking into the net on Hopkinton and/or North Reading using the local PL tone instead of the linked one - knocking the repeater off the net into local mode - net script should specify stations should only use a PL of 88.5 on UHF repeaters

Other repeater discussions:
Belmont 
Brookline 
Tone Encoder for Prudential Repeater 
MRE/MRW Status:
(Motion): Fix BBY PL New board @50 (unanimous)
(Motion) : Tri-band antenna (unanimous) $2462
Extended discussion related to what antenna to purchase.  K1IW proposed Kreco Antenna was changed to W1BRI recommended Telewave Antenna

(Motion) : Need to paint Marlborough West and East shelters; stay consistent with other buildings (unanimous) $100

3G / 4G - Discussion - Proactive / Go to Telo / GSM & LTE combination
Current Freedom Pop devices $11/mo changed to Tello (tello.com) service provider $7/month  Two additional devices to be activated for MDN and HOP before Sprint stop accepting new devices on May 1st.

Discussion: The former W1UQ 146.985 repeater in Brookline lost its site, will be semi-temporarily located in MRE shelter.  The discussion included:
Run different mode : Extend club capability (DMR?) 
How can we do something new? 
(Motion) - Plug it in and decide technical details later (majority)

Default State of Repeaters : Action Items: Publish default link configuration / Need to make sure website is accurate.

Discussion related to Hub 1 and Hub 2 configurations 

Boston Marathon Discussion: Numerous anomalies identified. 

Bruce is going to write May newsletter articles 

Net on Sunday 19:00 Belmont Repeater - SKYWARN training? 
Belmont repeater is carrying the weekly New York SKYWARN training off the DARI network - this is confusing, repeater should be delinked during this time

MMRA Treasurer Report

Meeting Adjourned - 20:27
----------

Tech Corner ~ Bob DeMattia, K1IW, Technical Officer

Those who have visited our website recently may have noticed it is running a bit faster.  This is because we have changed to a new provider.   The new provider also has secure HTTP available at no extra charge, so your password information (and the data that is sent back) is now encrypted.  All of this at a cost reduction to the club of $130 a year!

Computers are not the only thing being worked on at MMRA.  The Hopkinton 440 machine recently got a controller upgrade. The Hopkinton 223.94 has been relocated to Marlborough.  The antenna used for 220 at Marlborough is bad, so the board has approved its replacement.  The tower climber should be arriving in late May / early June.  Until then, we are keeping 223.94 off the air so that the high SWR won't damage the repeater.

On June 1st, we'll be repainting the Marlborough East shelter and replacing the wooden antenna mast. On June 8th, we'll be repainting the Marlborough West shelter.  If you are interested in helping out at either of these event, send an email to me at k1iw@mmra.org.  We have a few people, but still need a few more at each event..

DID YOU KNOW?
The MMRA North Reading and Hopkinton UHF repeaters, 446.775 and 449.575, respectively, feature automatic selection for running unlinked or linked to the MMRA network.  For a local ragchew, use a PL tone of 71.9.  If you want to be on the network, use a PL tone of 88.5.  The tone on the repeater transmitter will follow whichever tone you are using.  If you want to hear everything on the repeater, simply leave your receiver in open mode and use a tone only on transmit.  It is especially important to use a PL of 88.5 during the Tuesday night TIOS net!


[Editor’s note:  Tech Corner is a new column that will appear from time-to-time with information of a technical nature.   All of you can contribute to this column.  Send your (long or short) articles/notes/observations to newsletter@mmra.org.]
----------

Public Service Update ~ Bruce Pigott, KC1US

You may have noticed some updates to the MMRA Public Service web page.  It now has a calendar with the latest repeater reservations and event information. For small events using one repeater, that will be the only notice.  When more than one repeater is being used or a linking configuration is changed, a Twitter announcement will be made, which will be seen on the MMRA home page.  For large events, the Yahoo group will include more details.  We ask that you use other repeaters when these events are in progress.

To be informed about Public Service events run by other clubs, check the Public Service box in the Interests section on your member Profile Information.  Requests for help will then be forwarded to you.

Two clubs on the North Shore have a combined calendar that can be read by clicking the link on the MMRA Public Service page.  Check out the organizations that are being supported and some of the areas the events are in.  Then sign up.  You will see more picturesque settings by getting off major highways instead of just zipping by.  Last year I participated in events from Winchedon to Gloucester, run by five different clubs.
----------

From the Editor: Why Amateur Radio?
From time-to-time it makes sense for us to remember why the Federal Government (and the FCC) gives us all of this free spectrum to “play” ham radio.  From FCC Part 97:

Subpart A—General Provisions
§97.1 Basis and purpose.
The rules and regulations in this part are designed to provide an amateur radio service having a fundamental purpose as expressed in the following principles: 
a) Recognition and enhancement of the value of the amateur service to the public as a voluntary noncommercial communication service, particularly with respect to providing emergency communications. 
b) Continuation and extension of the amateur's proven ability to contribute to the advancement of the radio art. 
c) Encouragement and improvement of the amateur service through rules which provide for advancing skills in both the communication and technical phases of the art. 
d) Expansion of the existing reservoir within the amateur radio service of trained operators, technicians, and electronics experts. 
e) Continuation and extension of the amateur's unique ability to enhance international goodwill. 
----------

Use of Roger Beeps ~ Bruce Pigott, KC1US

Lately some inexpensive radios that have nonstandard amateur radio features have been purchased. One of the options is a roger beep at the end of a transmission.  It is the policy of the MMRA, when using the club repeaters, to disable this mode.  The MMRA system uses courtesy tones to indicate reset of the transmission timer and linking status.  On Baofeng radios, it is easy to turn off by going to menu item 39, and setting this feature to off, then saving the change.  Other brands of radios will have similar instructions.  Also check the deviation setting; it should be set to wide.  Narrow is a requirement for use on commercial F.C.C. Part 90 bands, but not on the ham bands.
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings
Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.

Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a meeting—if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.

Wednesday, 15 May ~ Annual Meeting & Eections
Speaker/Topic: Dave Hornbaker, N1DCH / Intro to Hotspots
Location: New England Sci-Tech Inc., Natick

Wednesday, 19 June ~ Business Meeting
Location: New England Sci-Tech Inc., Natick+ Teleconference
----------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 2	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 3 	KC1CLA		Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	KB1OQA		Tom Turner

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:

www.mmra.org --  Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions

Check here for the schedule:  
http://www.mmra.org/exam.html
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      617-699-3670 
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.
----------

MMRA Leaders
Executive Board — Officers

President	David Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Vice President	John Spencer		WA1MDD
Secretary	David Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Treasurer	Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk 		Charles Miller		KC1JUO

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2019	Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Director  »2019	Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Director  »2020	Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director  »2020	James Lee		N1DDK

Technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

Technical Officer Emeritus
			Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.430	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Boston 146.820	John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Brookline 145.16	Joyce DeMattia	K1IWW
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* ????????   224.880	?????	?????
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Lowell 442.250	Vince De La Flor	K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.810,  Quincy 146.670;
		 
	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.390, 147.270, 223.940,

       448.225, 449.925,  927.700 — all as W1MRA

			Bill Northup	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.610	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.400	Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Weston 146.790	Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.700	Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.700	David Wolfe	KG1H

Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* VEC Liaison	Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
  
                     * Appointed
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets & Gatherings

For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

18 May 	Brookline NH 	NEARC
18 May 	Goshen CT 	SoBARC @FG
19 May 	Cambridge MA  	Flea at  MIT
 2 Jun 	Queens NY  	HOSARC @HOS
 8 Jun 	Windsor CT 	VR+CMus
 9 Jun 	Bethpage NY 	LIMARC @Briercl
10 Aug 	St Albans VT 	STARC @Elks
25 Aug 	Newtown CT 	CARA @TownHall
6-8 Sep  HamXposition2019	@Boxboro!
 7 Sep 	Windsor CT 	VR+CMus
28 Sep 	Brookline NH 	NEARC
15 Sep 	Cambridge MA F	lea at MIT
6 Oct 	Queens NY 	HOSARC @HOS
11,12 Oct Deerfield NH 		NEARfest XXVI @FG
20 Oct 	Cambridge MA 	Flea at MIT
26 Oct 	Gails Ferry 	TriCity ARC
27 Oct 	Hicksville NY 	LIMARC @LevitHall
7 Dec Windsor CT VR+CMus
----------

Directions to New England Sci-Tech Inc.

16 Tech Circle		Natick MA 01760


From the north: take Rt 95 or Rt 27 or Rt 495 south to Route 30 toward Wayland. Once in Wayland, turn South on Oak Street and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle on your left. Follow Tech Circle to the end.

From the south: take Rt 95 or Rt 27 or Rt 495 north to Route 9 toward Natick. At the Wellesley-Natick line, turn North on Oak Street and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle on your right. Follow Tech Circle to the end.

From the east or west: follow either Rt 30 or Rt 9 toward Natick, turn onto Oak Street at a set of traffic lights, and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle. Follow Tech Circle to the end.
----------

Contacting the MMRA

Members: MMRA@yahoogroups.com

Officers: contact@mmra.org

Control Ops: control-ops@mmra.org
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER
----------

