<div class="moz-text-flowed" style="font-family: -moz-fixed">The Minuteman
Volume 37, Number 1
September 2007
------------------------

Membership Meeting ~ 19 September, 7:00PM (note the early time)
Solar Energy ~ Phil McNamara, N1XTB

Phil is very knowledgeable about solar power and actually powers his home with it. He will be telling us about this alternative energy source and how you can use it to power your station, or even your home.

Talk in freq: 147.27

Westborough Public Library  55 West Main Street     508-366-3050

DIRECTIONS:   The Westborough Public Library is located two blocks west of the rotary on Route 30 (West Main Street), between Parkman Street and Church Street.

>From Route 135 in Westborough:
Follow Route 135 to the rotary in the center of Westborough. At the rotary (the intersection of Routes 135 and 30), take route 30 West (West Main Street.) The library is two blocks ahead on the right, just after the police station, on the corner of West Main and Parkman Streets. 

>From the Massachusetts Turnpike:
Exit at Route 495 North/Westborough. From Route 495 take Route 9 West. Follow Route 9 approximately 1.5 miles to Route 30 West. Follow Route 30 (about 2 miles) straight through the rotary in the center of Westborough. The library is two blocks ahead on the right, just after the police station, on the corner of West Main and Parkman Streets.

For more information: http://www.westboroughlib.org/geninfo.html

-----------------

ARRL and TAPR		26th Annual Digital Communications Conference
September 28-30, 2007  Hartford, Connecticut

This is the premier Digital Communication Conference for Ham Radio.  Several members of the MMRA will be going and car-pooling.  Technical sessions include APRS, Software Defined Radio, future AMSAT birds, etc.  A “Demo Room” for experimenters will be open.  Info at http://www.tapr.org.

Contact James, KB1LOY or Kevin, K1KWP if you are interested.

-----------------

A New Amateur's Marathon Adventure
Tom Turner, KB1OQA 

As a prior viewer of the BAA Marathon, both in person and on television, I was aware that amateur radio operators played a large role in its success each year, so it was with great pleasure that I accepted the offer of Frank, NG1I, a longtime friend and co-worker, to join him as part of the amateur radio community on April 16th. I'd just recently obtained my ticket, which added additional excitement to this adventure. 

I belong to not only the MMRA, but also FARA, who in conjunction with the Boston Amateur Club get together each year to provide vitally needed communications services to the BAA at DMAT, First Aid and Water stations along the route. Our role as amateurs was increased this year due to the fact that several cellular telephone providers who'd previously donated materials and technical support were not present. 

It had been very rainy prior to Marathon Day, and there was the distinct possibility that this annual event might be cancelled due to extreme flooding conditions in many locations which placed an extreme burden on Public Safety Agencies throughout the State. TV weathercasters indicated heavy to torrential downpours on the 16th, and the Marathon route was no exception. 

Nonetheless, the decision was finally made to go forward with the BAA Marathon as scheduled.  I arose about 4:00 AM to attend the briefing for my assigned area in Framingham at the Danforth Museum. Frank was already there when I arrived, and related that weather conditions in his hometown of Leicester were less than ideal for an event of this type. In fact, he almost didn't make it due to the treacherous driving conditions. 

Following our briefing, we proceeded to our station at the corner of Waverly Street (Rte-135) and Beaver Street in the southern part of Framingham to meet the crew of the Red Cross Disaster Unit that was already on-site. There were rehab buses, additional blankets, and other essential supplies provided to allow runners to relax at all First Aid locations if it became necessary. 

After we chatted a bit with the crew, a roll call was conducted by "Net Control" with all units. Our designator was "Foxtrot Zero-Three," and both Frank and I checked in and were acknowledged. I'd noticed that the road just west of our location was flooded and contacted the Framingham DPW via Net Control who promptly responded and resolved the problem. 

Shortly thereafter, the Marathon began, first with the wheelchair runners. At this time, torrential downpours were passing through the Metrowest area, making travel by these dedicated folks a real challenge. After they passed, the main body of the race began and continued for several hours. The weather gradually improved as the Marathon continued, and by the time the last runner passed our Framingham location, the sun had begun to peek through the clouds. 

Our crew was fortunate in that we only one call of a minor nature, although in listening to the radio other stations further along the route were extremely busy. As a first-time participant in this event, I was pleased with the professionalism and radio discipline shown by both field personnel and net controllers, was proud to be a part of the team, and am planning to join you next year.
 
It goes without saying that a large-scale venture such as the BAA Marathon takes lots of advance planning, with much time spent on logistics. Amateur Radio can and does play an important role and has proven itself over the years to be a "can-do" organization.

---------------

Head of the Charles Regatta ~ Opportunity to Participate

On behalf of the American Red Cross of Massachusetts Bay Chapter, I welcome you to the Head of the Charles Regatta 2007 ARC/Ham Radio Support. 

This year we will be using both 2m and 70cm along with APRS on 70cm 

This year’s events will be held from October 19 to 21.
If you are available to work one, two or all three of these days, (full days only....its almost impossible to change staff during the day, as all the roads are closed) 
please let me know.  

Send your information to RWJeffa@comcast.net
	Ham Radio Call Sign
	Address
	email address
	phone number (home and cell)
	days or day
	jacket size

Look forward to hearing from you all. 

Jeff Arnold de K1EMS
American Red Cross of Massachusetts Bay 
First Aid Station Committee

-----------------

President’s Report
Bob DeMattia, K1IW

As fall approaches, it's the start of a new MMRA membership year.  All memberships run from September 1st to August 31st, so unless you are one of the few that renewed over the summer, your membership has probably expired. For those reading the newsletter online, the first screen you see after you log in will display a prominent reminder of your membership status. For those receiving pony express issues, check the date on your mailing label. The main (and almost exclusive) source of MMRA's income is membership dues. Dues and the sweat equity of the technical committee are what keep the repeaters running, so please remember to renew your membership today. 

While I'm on the topic of reminders, my second one is that "This is your club". YOU can affect the outcome of any club decision. Consider how you think the club could be made better and then let a board member know. These could be something like suggesting a topic or speaker for a meeting to a new feature on a repeater. Come to our meetings! We work hard to find interesting speakers for our meetings, and it's a little disappointing for both us and the speaker when they take the time to speak at a meeting and only twelve (of over 200) members are present. We rotate the meeting locations so that at least one should be close to where you live. If you'd like to suggest a meeting location, that's something we are open to also!

-----------------

Treasurer’s Report
Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

I have been the treasurer of the MMRA for the past four years (I previously served as president and vice-president for several years).  Most members are aware of the general membership meetings which are held five times each year.  There are also another set of meetings of the MMRA which usually occur in the months which do not have general membership meetings.  Even though these meetings are generally known as the “Board Meetings” all members are invited and encouraged to attend as this is the forum where most decisions (and votes) that relate to the policies, operation, and funding  of the club and the repeater system occur.  Information which is presented at the “Board Meetings” generally includes detailed financial information.  The purpose of this article is to make some of this financial information more visible to the membership at large.

The MMRA fiscal year runs from the time of the elections (which occur at the May meeting each year) to the next election.  The May 2006 through May 2007 fiscal year concluded at the election meeting in May 2007 at which point the May 2007 through May 2008 fiscal year commenced.  

In the previous fiscal year (May 2006 through May 2007) the income was $5777.02 and the expenses were $4417.52.  That means that income exceeded expenses last year by $1359.45 which is an overall surplus but $810.00 in dues for the 2007-2008 year were collected (primarily at 2006 Boxborough ARRL convention due to two year membership incentives) so the actual surplus was really only $549.45.   

The above $5777.02 income was made up of  $4127.71 in 2006-2007 dues, $810 in 2007-2008 dues, $323.00 in miscellaneous income (mostly equipment sales such as EBay and Marlboro Flea)  and $426.31 in donations.  

The above $4417.52 in expenses includes $800 for electricity and $350.00 for phone service (both) at the Marlboro West repeater site.  It also includes  $19.65 in bank fees, $44.00 for the PO box, $18.50 in state corporation fees, $75.00 to the Campion Center for the May 2007 meeting, $165.00 for the ISP which serves up the www.mmra.org website, and $150.00 for rent at the Marlboro East site.  Most importantly $1465.97 in repeater system improvements is also included. The MMRA carries liability insurance which has a cost of $525 per year.  Printing and postage for the newsletter cost the club $580.53.  Each member that elects to receive the newsletter by email is saving the club almost $10.00 per year 

Although the numbers in this article indicate that the MMRA once again operated in the black for the last year it is important to remember that an event such as a lightning strike could present a large unforeseen set of expenses at any time which would rapidly use up any surpluses that we generate.  

Although some members have already renewed their membership we need to collect an additional $3148.00 in dues to reach the same membership level as 2006-2007.

I hope that this article has given the members who do not attend the “Board Meetings” some insights into some of the recurring costs for operating the system as well as the one time costs that occur when putting new and/or improved repeaters on the air.  If you would like more information about these aspects of the MMRA I strongly  encourage you to attend one or more board meetings in the future.

73,  Kevin (K1KWP)
Treasurer, Minuteman Repeater Association

---------------

MMRA May Meeting 
Larry Banks, W1DYJ

Our last meeting of the 2006 to 2007 MMRA year was our Annual Meeting, held at the Clay Center Observatory in Brookline.  The MMRA would like to thank Bob Phinney, K5TEC, for arranging the meeting.  The meeting was in three parts: Bob DeMattia moderated the Annual Meeting. Ron Dantrowitz talked about the work being done at the Clay Center, and then led a tour of the observatory.

ANNUAL MEETING

Bob DeMattia held our Annual Meeting in the conference hall.  Short reports from our Treasurer, Kevin, and our Technical Officer, Bryan, preceded the main event — our elections.  All nominees were elected, our current officers are listed later in this Newsletter

	Picture: Bob doing an election Song & Dance

CLAY CENTER DISCUSSION and CLAY CENTER TOUR

Ron, the Director of the Clay Center Observatory, described the latest education and research collaborations involving the Clay Center.  For more information about Ron, see our May 2007 Newsletter. 

	Picture: Ron introducing his talk
	Picture: Ron’s introductory slide
	Picture: One photo from the Clay Center telescope
	Picture: The gang looking at the new Clay Center tracking scopes
	Picture: The Repeaters
	Picture: The Clay Center Telescopes

--------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928

-------------------

Update on Stoneham 440
Larry Banks, W1DYJ

As you know by now, the Stoneham 440 repeater is on a list of about 160 repeaters that have been cited by the Air Force as interfering with the two Pave Paws radar systems in the US — most in California but about 40 here.  The Pave Paws installation is in Sandwich and has been upgraded which is why this is a problem.

We have received our mitigation information from the ARRL, who has been working with the Air Force and the FCC in an attempt to keep these repeaters on the air.  From our original RF output of 20 W to a 5 dB omni directional antenna (~63W ERP) we have been asked to reduce our power in the Pave Paws direction by 24 dB — or to 78 mW!

We will discuss this at our 19 Sept. meeting.  We have a number of thoughts on how to do this and keep the repeater on the air.  We need to act quickly to show that we understand that the 440 ham band is a secondary player to the Air Force.  Come with your thoughts as we probably have not thought of everything.

------------------

Quincy Antenna Party
Larry Banks, W1DYJ

Late last April, and too late to make the May Newsletter, the Quincy 2M antenna was raised about 40 feet to the top of the tower.  Charlotte Richardson, KQ1F, and Paul Young, K1XM, were the tower crew, for which the MMRA owes a great debt — and they did this for the price of a good dinner!

Bob, N1BE, and Bryan, W1BRI were the support crew.

	Picture: KQ1F starting her climb
	Picture: K1XM near the top
	Picture: N1BE and W1BRI working on the new link antenna
	Picture: The Resident Hawk protecting the site

Comments from Charlotte:

The water tower is about 60' tall - the tower sections on top add another 40'.

The tower stuff is a specially-built heavy tower at the bottom and a couple pieces of Rohn 45 on top of it, with the station-master bolted to the side of the stand-pipe top section. The heavy-duty bottom tower is a custom job and has a flat plate at the top. The bottom of the Rohn 45 is on a pier-pin base (but drilled out with large heavy bolts connecting the two. It's rock-solid.

-------------------

MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			John McGovern		W1JMC
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2006-08		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2006-08		Bill Hanrahan		W1WH
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency  Coordinator		James Cahill		KB1LOY
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	James Cahill		KB1LOY
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW

-------------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

We need a control operator for the first Tuesday  of each month – contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org if you would like to running the net some evening – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	?????		We Need You!	
Week 2	W1EUJ		Dave Goncalves	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks 	
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks 

-------------------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the
Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ
781-891-9079
Evenings 6 to 10 PM,
Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.
Accredited by the ARRL VEC

--------------------

Calendar of Ham Radio Events

Public Service Events 
See this web site for contact information
http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

Sep 15  	Boston		MA Ride to Cure Parkinson's  
Sep 16  	Boston     	MA Jimmy Fund Walk   
Sep 29  	Bristol NH 	NH Marathon   
Oct  6  	Hollis NH 	Applefest Half Marathon  
Oct  7  	Boston MA 	BAA Half Marathon   
Oct  7  	Monroe MA 	Dunbar Brook Trail Race  
Oct 19-21  	Cambridge MA 	Head of the Charles Regatta 

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

15 Sept 	Forestdale RI 		RIFMRS 
15 Sept 	Windsor CT 		VR+C Mus 
16 Sept 	Cambridge MA          	FLEA at MIT
16 Sept 	Newtown CT 		CARA
22 Sept 	Alton NH 		MASONS 
29 Sept 	Gales Ferry CT 		RASON 
6 Oct 		Feeding Hills MA 	MTARA 
7 Oct 		Wallingford CT 		Nutmeg Conv 
7 Oct 		Wakefield MA 		Photographica  
12-13 Oct 	Deerfield NH 		NearFest 
20 Oct 		Manchester NH 		NEAntqRC 
27 Oct 		Waterford CT 		TCARC Auction 
2 Nov 		Feeding Hills MA 	HCRA Auction 
3 Nov 		Londonderry NH 		IRS  
10 Nov 		E Falmouth MA 		FARA 

-----------------

END OF MMRA NEWSLETTER</div>