The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman   Volume 37, Number 3      January 2008

--------------------------

Membership Meeting ~ 10 January, 7:30 PM
NOTE: This is a week earlier than normal and a Thursday!
Marlborough Middle School	Joint meeting with AARC	
WA1JXR, Greg Algieri ~ Antenna Analyzers	
Talk in on 147.27

>From 495: take Exit 25W toward Hudson, then right on 85S.  Go past 2 lights, then just past Police Station parking lot turn left onto Agoritsas Dr.   Go straight and enter 1st main door to info desk.

>From 128 via Rt. 20W: in Marlborough, turn right on 85N.  After 2nd light and just before Police Station parking lot turn right onto Agoritsas Dr.   Go straight and enter 1st main door to info desk.

Meeting is in the school library.

----------------------------

Your Dues are Overdue...
...if you have not paid your dues for this year.   PLEASE DO!

Page 3 has a Snail Mail form, or go to http://www.mmra.org  and renew online.

----------------------------

MMRA TIaOS Net Control Operators Needed!

We will help you get started.

----------------------------

MMRA December Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

The MMRA board met in Northborough MA at the residence of K1IW on the evening of December 19, 2007.

Present were: K1IW, K1KWP, N1BE, W1BRI, WA1NVC, N1BDA, W1DYJ, N1NVK, and KC1US.

Discussion:
1. Secretary Report - W1JMC (via e-mail)
	Membership renewal status, what to do to get more renewals, issues with members getting renewal notices:
	We are unaware of members ~not~ getting the annual renewal notices by emails [ie (i )with every renewal welcome message, (ii) in the newsletter front page, and (iii) most recently 10/29/07 email reminder.]
	Bounces are minimal, then resent to second email address, or mailed.  US mail members get the notice on their renewal copy, on each newsletter label (3-4 times)  and in the September newsletter text.
	Discussion about how to remind members to check when their membership ends.  Need more visible notice in newsletter.

2. Treasurer Report - K1KWP
	Since last board meeting picked up quite a few membership renewals and sold equipment on eBay.  Also a few donations were received.  Income so far for this year is about $1000 less than last year at this time.  Now we have about $200 available for discretionary expenses.

3. Repeater Report - W1BRI
	Two hub project is mostly complete.  Links from Mendon and Weston to HUB 2 still need some work.
	Hub 2 is back up.  Bryan has been busy helping with the Framingham 2-M repeater and MEMA's 6-meter repeater on Mt. Wachusett.
	Discussed code prefixes to allow Echolink connects to be requested over the air.

	Belmont is now an MMRA repeater.  At present it is not linked to other MMRA repeaters.  Belmont is at the house of WA1RTT.  He also is the trustee.  We voted unanimously to give him an MMRA membership in exchange for use of the site at his house.

4. Update on D-Star - K1IW
	Work is progressing slowly.  The owner is expected to have more time to work on this after the winter.  Discussion about how to get internet DSL link over phone line that previously was used there.  Also indoor and outdoor lights at the MRE shelter do not work.

5. N1JBC affiliation 
	Board voted unanimously to approve permanent affiliation of the 145.37 PL 67 Hz Coventry RI repeater.

6. CPSG integration & Walk for Hunger Issues
	Eric Horwitz, North Shore DEC, volunteered to lead effort to coordinate public service for this event.  Eric is a new MMRA member. CPSG (Crocker Public Service Group) assets have been deposited into MMRA account.  Their old web URL now points to a CPSG page on the MMRA web site. 

7. Official MMRA control operator list - K1IW
	NESMC prefers that each repeater to have an additional control operator separate from the trustee.  We discussed members we will ask to serve.

8. Newsletter Items - W1DYJ
	With the early meeting in Jan, the newsletter has to get to  the printer on Dec 28.  Also need reminder to the MMRA Yahoo group.
	Discussion of commitments for articles 
	So much going on with the network that we need a clear    description of what is current and what is the future 

9.  TIaOS net and net controls - W1DYJ 
	What could we be doing to "acquire" some new net controls?  Only two of the weeks of the month have reliable control ops.  N1BDA will approach his ARES contacts.

10.  Upcoming meetings & events
	We have planned meetings and speakers through June.  One future meeting suggestion is a meeting that explains the MMRA network in detail.
	Marlborough Flea Feb 16.  MMRA has some items to sell at the flea.  147.27 will be used for their talk-in.  Need someone in addition to K1IW to man the booth.
	Boxboro convention, at August 22-24.  K1IW may be able to get digital photo frames for our booth.
	ARRL Board meeting - looking for someone to go to Springfield for this meeting on the first weekend in Jan.

The meeting ended at: 9:30PM.

--------------------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928

------------------------------

Treasurer’s Report
Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Income	   Dues		  $2399.71
	   Donations	    421.81
	   Misc.	    397.03
	   Total	  $3218.55

Number of members renewed to date = 131
Number not yet renewed = 53

Expenses   Spent to date	  $2102.54
	   Expected expenses	    953.14
	   Total		  $3055.68

Discretionary Funds 		$  162.87

--------------------------------

President’s Message
Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Every Tuesday night at 8PM, MMRA continues a time-honored tradition: The MMRA Technical Information and Other Stuff net. This is a weekly over-the-air meeting for MMRA members and non-members alike. While our bi-monthly meetings require a trek to our various meeting spots, this is a meeting you can attend from the comfort of your home, automobile, or wherever you might be at the time.

Larry Banks has been the net manager for our little net for several years now. He tells me attendance on the net hasn’t been too bad, but he’s having trouble finding regular net controls to run the net. Larry’s a great guy and has been running a lot of the nets himself, but, that’s not what a club activity should be about.

Have you got thirty minutes to an hour you can spare once a month? You don’t have to go anywhere, just be near your favorite radio. Get your cup of coffee, a piece of paper, and a pencil and take part in this long-running club activity. If you’d like to help out as a net control, drop Larry a note at w1dyj@mmra.org. He’ll show you what to do and get you up and running. If you don’t want to net control, at least join us for an interesting conversation – every Tuesday, at 8 PM, on all MMRA repeaters except 145.43. K1IW

----------------------------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Jan 10	Marlborough MS		Joint meeting with AARC	
Feb 20	TBD	Board Meeting
Mar 19	Campion Center, Weston 	GEMOTO and the Mt. Uncanoonuc Repeater System, Rick, K1RJZ	
Apr 16	TBD	Board Meeting
May 21	Clay Center Observatory, Brookline 	Astronomy Night and General Elections

----------------------------

Linking on the MMRA Network ~ Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Linking / Delinking repeaters on the MMRA network just got a lot easier.  From the repeater you are on, simply enter “C1” to connect to Hub 1, or “C2” to connect to Hub 2.   A code of “DD” will disconnect any existing link.

If you wish to link from the HUB side, you still need to use the four digits codes.  However, the “two-step” process of having to enter a member preaccess code, then the linking command, as been eliminated.   Instead, simple enter the linking command by entering the three digits after the decimal point of the repeater you want to link – for example “670” for Quincy, “820” for Brookline, “715” for Stoneham, etc followed immediately by a “0” to delink, “1” to link to HUB1, or “2” to link to HUB2.

Not all repeaters can link to both hubs.  Also, if you try to link from the HUB side, the repeater you are calling needs to be listening to the correct HUB.  When unlinked, this is most often HUB1.  However, at a site where there are two repeaters, if one repeater is delinked and the other is linked, the delinked is listening to the same hub as the linked one.

Please remember, use of the linking/delinking codes is reserved for MMRA members.  Non-members found to be using the codes will be asked to refrain.  If this becomes a problem, the more complicated two-step linking process which required a member preaccess code first will return.

----------------------------

November Membership Meeting ~ Larry Banks, W1DYJ
Bob Stone, N1KMA	The Wide Area Amateur Radio Network

Bob is a key player in the Wide Area Amateur Radio Network (WAARN). The network consists of seven full time linked repeaters in Maine and New Hampshire, including two sets of three synchronous transmitters on 145.21 and on 441.50. When you are operating within the network area, your signal is voted by the three receivers and retransmitted on all three transmitters. But, the system is more than that - all repeaters are tied to a central HUB via common carrier. The network can be controlled via traditional DTMF but also through a web interface that displays the current system status. 

Bob described their system and also talked about future plans.

----------------------------

MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			John McGovern		W1JMC
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2006-08		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2006-08		Bill Hanrahan		W1WH
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency  Coordinator		James Cahill		KB1LOY
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	James Cahill		KB1LOY
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW

---------------------------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

We need a control operator for the first and third  Tuesdays  of each month – contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org if you would like to running the net some evening – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	?????		We Need You!	
Week 2	W1EUJ		Dave Goncalves	
Week 3	?????		We Need You!	
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks 

--------------------------------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the
Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ
781-891-9079
Evenings 6 to 10 PM,
Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.
Accredited by the ARRL VEC

---------------------------------

Calendar of Ham Radio Events

Public Service Events
See this web site for contact information
http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

Feb 8-10 Laconia NH    World Champ Dog sled races
Feb 16 Laconia NH      Sandwich Notch 60 sled race  
Jul 12 Woburn MA       New England Classic Tour
Jul 13 Durham NH       New England Classic Tour
Jul 14 Biddeford ME    New England Classic Tour
Jul 15 North Conway NH New England Classic Tour
Jul 16 Northfield VT   New England Classic Tour
Jul 17 Killington VT   New England Classic Tour
Jul 18 Rindge NH       New England Classic Tour

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

 2 Feb    Chelsea ME AARA @Crystal Falls
16 Feb    Marlboro MA AARC @Intermediate Sch
17 Feb    Westford MA Radio 39 Antique @Regency 
23 Feb    Milton VT RANV @HS
15 Mar    Pomfret CT ECARA @Comm Sch
30 Mar    Southington CT SARA @HS 
30 Mar    Henniker NH CVRC @Comm Sch
 5 Apr    Londonderry NH IRS @Lions Sellers
 6 Apr    Framingham MA FARA @Keefe Sch
13 Apr    LaGrangeville NY MtBARC @TymorePk
19 Apr    Manchester NH NEAntqRC @BingoCtr
20 Apr    Cambridge MA FLEA at MIT
2-3 May   Deerfield NH NearFest @FG
18 May    Cambridge MA FLEA at MIT
30-31 May Rochester NY RARA
7 Jun     Hermon ME PSARC @HS @8 
--------------------------

END OF NEWSLETTER