The Minuteman
Volume 38, Number 1
September 2008
-----------------------------

Membership Meeting ~ 17 September 2008
Talk in on 146.79
The MMRA Virtual Tour
At our September meeting, you will see the ins and outs of the MMRA's ten repeater sites through a multimedia tour.  There will also be important news about the Slygo Hill and Stoneham installations (see below.)

The meeting begins 7 PM at the Town of Weston Public Library, 87 School Street.

From 128/95
Take Route 128 to the Route 20 exit (exit 26).  Go west on Route 20 about 1.5 miles to the first traffic light, which is on the corner of Route 20 and School Street.  Turn left on School Street. The
library is 4/10 of a mile on your right.

From the Mass Pike Heading East
Take Exit 13, Route 30.  Go east, towards Natick/Wellesley.  Stay on road for approximately 4 miles, through three sets of lights (You will enter 
Wayland, then Natick, then Weston). Once you are in Weston, turn left at the first set of lights (Wellesley Street), and travel approximately 1.5 miles. At island, turn left at the stop sign and bear left onto School Street. The library will be on the left.

-----------------------
Stoneham Update…  Bob DeMattia, K1IW

As you may know, last spring The Gutierrez Company, owners of the former Stoneham hospital, informed the MMRA that the property was going to be torn down.  MMRA vice president Steve Telsey, who had been working with the Lahey Clinic on a separate radio project, approached Lahey about locating a repeater at the Burlington location.  In a meeting with Lahey last week final approval was received.  After some hardware is ordered, MMRA will be relocating the Stoneham repeater to Burlington, most likely in October.  We will be organizing a work party to take down the equipment from Stoneham and install in at Burlington - all in one day.  Keep an eye on your email as to the specific day.

------------------------

Treasurer’s Report
Kevin Paetzold ~ K1KWP 

I have been honored to serve as the treasurer of the MMRA for the last four years  and was re-elected in May for a fifth year.  I previously served as vice-president and president for several years.  Most members are aware of the general membership meetings which are held five times each year.  There are also another set of meetings of the MMRA which usually occur in the months which do not have general membership meetings.  Even though these meetings are generally known as the “Board Meetings” all members are invited and encouraged to attend as this is the forum where most decisions (and votes) that relate to the policies, operation, and funding of the club and the repeater system occur.  Information which is presented at the “Board Meetings” generally includes detailed financial information.  The purpose of this article is to make some of this financial information more visible to the membership at large and to provide a summary of the May 2007 through May 2008 fiscal year.

The MMRA fiscal year runs from the time of the elections (which occur at the May meeting each year) to the next election.  The May 2007 through May 2008 fiscal year concluded at the election meeting in May 2007 at which point the May 2008 through May 2009 fiscal year commenced.

In the previous fiscal year (May 2007 through May 2008) the income was $6863.47 and the expenses were $4132.33.  That means that income exceeded expenses last year by $2851.14 which is an overall surplus.

Included in the above totals are $200.00 in dues for the 2008-2009 which were collected and $2300.00 in actual donations (which are being held) for the upcoming MRW project.  Taking both of the above into account the surplus is really $351.14.

The above $6863.47 income was made up of  $3294.71 in 2007-2008 dues, $200 in 2008-2009 dues, $507.03 in miscellaneous income (mostly equipment sales such as EBay and Marlboro Flea)  and $2861.73 in donations.  $810 of 2007-2008 dues were collected in 2006-2007 are not included in the above totals.

The above $4132.33 in expenses includes $724.81 for electricity and $361.00 for phone service (both) at the MRW repeater site.  It also includes $140.74 in bank fees, $68.00 for the PO box, $18.50 in state corporation fees, $75.00 to the Campion Center (for the May 2008 meeting), $150.00 for the ISP which serves up the www.mmra.org website, and $150.00 for rent at the MRE site.  Most importantly $1130.23 in repeater system improvements is included. The MMRA carries liability insurance which has a cost of $520 per year.  Printing and postage for the newsletter cost the club $424.47.  Each member that elects to receive the newsletter by email is saving the club almost $10.00 per year

Although the numbers in this article indicate that the MMRA once again operated in the black for the last year it is important to remember that an event such as a lightning strike such as occurred near the Quincy site this summer could present a large unforeseen set of expenses at any time which would rapidly use up any surpluses that we generate.

It should be remembered by all we still have a large expensive project pending for the MRW site for which costs will almost certainly exceed the generous donations and pledges that we have already received.

Although we have received $1775.00 in dues for 2008-2009 (some members have already renewed) we need to collect an additional $2642.71 in dues to reach the same membership support level as 2007-2008.

I hope that this article has given the members who do not attend the “Board Meetings” some insights into some of the recurring costs for operating the system as well as the one time costs that occur when putting new and/or improved repeaters on the air.  If you would like more information about these aspects of the MMRA I strongly encourage you to attend one or more board meetings in the future.

On behalf of the membership and the board I would like to thank N1HBR, KB1EB, K5TEC, KB1LOY, KB1EFS, KC1US, N3EVL, KK1X, and N1DDU for their donations or pledges for the upcoming MRW/Sligo Hill project.

73,

Kevin (K1KWP)
Treasurer, Minuteman Repeater Association

--------------------------

Boxborough Convention Report 
Kevin Paetzold ~ K1KWP 

The MMRA once again hosted a booth/hospitality suite at the bi-annual ARRL New England Division convention in Boxboro.  The MMRA also hosted and operated the talk-in station for the event.  Many thanks to FEMARA (which is the group that actually sponsors and organizes the event for all of us) for again making a prime spot off the courtyard available to the MMRA.

The MMRA foxbox was hidden on Friday afternoon for round one and was found on Saturday by W1HFN at 11:00, W1DYJ and W1SJ at 15:21, and WB1EWS at 15:30.  The foxbox was re-hidden Saturday evening for round two but there were no signs that anybody found it on Sunday.

At the event 45 members renewed for the 2008-2009 membership year ($1155 in dues).  31 of those members also took advantage of the two year renewal offer ($805 in dues) and are now renewed until September 2010.  A total of $1960 in dues was collected.

Those members renewing for two years received a bonus of six raffle tickets.  In addition $92 of raffle tickets were sold.  We also received $10 in donations.  Total MMRA income at Boxboro was $2062.

I was very happy to meet many members and friends at the booth but unfortunately I could not be there all the time to meet everyone.  I would like to thank those who helped staff the booth and provide talk-in.  I would like to especially thank KB1LOY for help with setup (on Friday) and take down (on Sunday) and also K1JAS who took the first shifts as net control for the talk-in station (starting at 6AM) on both days.

-----------------------------

Membership Meeting Report
21 May 2008
Astronomy Night (and General Elections)
The Clay Center Observatory

John Briggs, Astronomer at the Clay Center and Ham (KB1PFT) and Bob Phinney, Director of Clay Center and Ham  (K5TEC) discussed the latest educational and research collaborations at the Clay Center and how they help inspire students of all ages to keep up an interest in science and technology. The talk was followed by a tour of the observatory and some of the research equipment used.  This was a “shouldn’t miss it” membership meeting.

General Elections for the MMRA were also held.  See page 7 for the current officers of the MMRA.

---------------------------------

MMRA June Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

The MMRA board met on June 18, 2008 at the office of Stratus Technologies.  Present were K1KWP, K1IW, W1DYJ, W3EVE, N1BDA, N1MPN, N1NVK, W1BRI, WA1NVC, and N1BE.  The meeting was called to order at 7:25PM.

K1KWP presented a treasurer's report.  Last year there were 173 members.  So far 11 have renewed this year.  We also discussed funds pledged and already donated for the Slygo project.

The Slygo project in Marlborough is on hold.  Although the city has collected about $300K from cell tower rentals, they got sticker shock when the least costly proposal for the work was over $700K.  The Slygo tower is structurally sound at present.  So the city will delay for at least a few years and accumulate more rent in the duration before they get still higher bids.

We still need to replace our rusting shelter at that site.  Therefore we discussed options for: (1) moving the shelter from Maine to Marlboro, and (2) getting permission to replace our shelter before winter.
At Stoneham, we think it will be at least 8 months before they will have permits to tear down the building that houses our repeaters.  We discussed informal probing and contacts for identifying alternate sites where we might relocate the equipment.

MMRA net will be linked on Saturday evening of Field Day for a special Heavy Hitter Traffic Net session, Saturday evening.

Discussion then turned to plans for the Boxboro convention.  Bob has purchased the raffle prizes:
Icom V82 HT; MFJ VHF/UHF cross-needle power/SWR meter; MFJ deluxe 24-hour wall clock.

Talk-in will be on 147.27, linked to UHF and 6 meters.  We have permission to put a local repeater on the hotel roof.  This might be used for talk-in.

K1KWP has the fox box and will bring it.  K1KWP will also coordinate staffing for the booth and talk-in.
At the suite we will have a slide show, maybe a service monitor, 900 MHz repeater demo, and programming of 900 MHz radios.  The GEMOTO talk about 900 MHz might generate traffic if they recommend our suite.  K1IW will supply a flat panel display.  W1BRI will bring a computer and DVD for the slide show.

There also will be a MMRA flea market exhibit with a sign referring people to our booth.  We do not plan to sell anything at the flea so that booth need not be manned.

Back to repeaters, the board moved to link HUB2 to W1OJ's Mt. Wachusett repeater and via that to 10 Meters full time.  146.79 would link to HUB2 mid-day, leaving the repeaters not linked during commuting hours.

W1DYJ is looking for a replacement net control operator for the 2nd Tuesday of each month.

W3EVE is interested in using the eastern half of the MMRA network on Sept 21 for the Jimmy Fund walk.  He was referred to the MMRA Public Service coordinator.

K1KWP mentioned there are some fox hunting opportunities.  We might get permission to hide the fox box in Worcester.  The Reading QRA club is interested in a joint hunt with the MMRA.  Also, the Framingham FARA club is interested in a fox hunting talk.  Since we gave a talk to FARA about 7 years ago, this could be more advanced, perhaps with a local hunt.
The meeting adjourned at 9PM.

[Editor’s note:  As can be seen from other articles in this Newsletter, some of this has changed since the BoD meeting in June.]

-----------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928

-----------------------

Marlborough Update…
Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Those that have been following the Sligo Hill situation may have seen the article in the Metrowest Daily News.  The lowest bid which the city received was nearly twice what they anticipated.  This has delayed the project schedule.  The latest word from the city is that they still wish to go ahead with the project.  They have been speaking with the contractors to find a way to move forward.  More information is likely to be available by the time of our September meeting on the 17th.

--------------------

President’s Message
Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Welcome back to the 2008-2009 MMRA membership year!  MMRA enjoyed a successful stint at the ARRL New England Convention in August, with 45 members renewing their membership, and over half of those renewing for two years.  If you haven't renewed yet, let me provide a friendly reminder that all MMRA memberships expire on August 31st of each year, so it's time to renew!  You can do this online at http://www.mmra.org, or by sending your dues by U.S. mail to the club address on the back page of this newsletter.  If you do the latter, remember to send along any updates to your contact information as well.
 
The convention reminds me of another important point.  For ARRL members in the Eastern Mass. section, there is a contested election for the ARRL Section Manager this year.  If you are an ARRL member, you should be receiving a ballot from the league in October.   One of our MMRA directors, Mike Neilsen W1MPN, is a candidate for this office. 
 
I have always known Mike to show the discipline, wisdom, and knowledge required for this position.  He is well versed in the many aspects of our hobby and has been a staunch advocate for amateur radio when representing us in front of civic leaders and other non-hams with which we interact. Within our ranks, he has always been there to listen to our concerns and represent us to the league. Please remember to return your section manager ballot.  When you do, I heartily recommend that you vote for Mike Neilsen.

-------------------

MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			open
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2008-10		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2008-10		Mike Neilsen		W1MPN
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency Coordinator		open
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	Bruce Pigott		KC1US
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW

------------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational
and Other Stuff Net
The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

WE NEED ANOTHER NET CONTROL. If you would like to tray your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org  – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	open	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks

------------------

END of MMRA Newletter for September 2008
