The Minuteman Repeater Association

A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  
----------

The Minuteman
Volume 45, Number 1
September 2015
----------

Have you renewed your membership yet?
All 2014 memberships expired on August 31st! Time to renew either on the Member's login link at www.mmra.org or by U.S. Mail with a check to MMRA, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01665.
----------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, Sept 23 ~ 7 PM
The Greatest Hobby In The World
ARRL First Vice President Rick Roderick, K5UR
This is a DVD presentation of a speech given at the 2014 ARRL convention. This inspirational and humorous presentation has been well received at gatherings across the country 

Location: Northborough Public Library 
Talkin: 147.27

Directions to The Northborough Free Library from I-495:

>From I-495, take Exit 24B which is Rt. 20 West toward Northborough.
Follow Rt. 20 West about 3.5 miles, into the center of Northborough.
Opposite the Gulf Station on the right, turn left into Patty Lane.
The Northborough Free Library parking lot will be on the left.

LIBRARY PARKING 
Patty Lane is right across from the Gulf station.  Follow Patty Lane to the library parking lot.   
The red brick building next to the library has a tempting driveway, being right next to the library, but it is private property.  Please respect the owners' property, and use the library lot.  Additional parking is available on the corner of Hudson and Pierce, or at Town Hall.  
Traffic exiting Patty Lane should stay to far right, even for left turns, to avoid traffic turning in. The lane closest to the pizza shop is for INCOMING traffic ONLY from Rt. 20 eastbound.

Also check:    http://northboroughlibrary.org/northborough/hours.asp
----------

About the Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern Massachusetts.

The MMRA meets (usually) on the 3rd Wednesday of each month from September to June.  Meeting times, locations, and talk-in frequency vary and are announced in this newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.  Guest speakers and programs of general interest occur in September, November, January, March, and May.  The intervening meetings are also open to all members and are for general business.

The Minuteman newsletter is Emailed one week before each general interest meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles which can be sent to the editor at 
newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.

Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!

Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.

Email to the club leadership should be sent to 
contact@mmra.org. The MMRA maintains a web site at:  http://www.mmra.org/

An email distribution list for club members named “MMRA” is at: www.yahoogroups.com/.  

You can also follow us on twitter @mmraham and like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mmraham.

No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
----------

MMRA QRM Policy

MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater 
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective way (and probably the only effective way) to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident.  Measures are being taken to make audio recordings of repeater activity.
----------

Wide Area Youth Net ~ Kenneth Kalin, KC1AHI, Nathan Pennie, KC1CFU

Many youth hams across Eastern Massachusetts have spent a lot of time and effort getting their radio tickets and yearn for a time and place to talk to other hams and kids their age. However, many youths can’t reach popular repeaters or turn off their radios and miss other hams who get on the air a few minutes later. 

To solve this dilemma, the Clay Center Amateur Radio Club (CC-ARC) and the Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) have teamed and combined their repeater networks at 7:30 PM on Thursdays to hold a wide area youth net. Kenneth Kalin, KC1AHI and Nathan Pennie, KC1CFU with the help of Marek Kozubal, KB1NCG wrote the script for this net. 

The Eastern Massachusetts Youth net has now been running for about a month. KC1CFU, KC1AHI, and KC1CJP have taken turns running the net, but only a few other CC-ARC members have joined. We really would like to see more people on the net. Although the name implies a youth-only net, we welcome adults and youths to the net. We think it is important for adults to join in to act as role models for the youths that are new to ham radio. It is important that the next generation of hams is competent at participating in nets and one of the best ways to learn is by example. 

This net is also great place for youths in other clubs to find common interests that they all want to learn about with other kids on the air.  Towards the end of the net, the discussion turns towards deciding the topic for the next net. This way the youths on the net can have an input about what they talk about next week. In the coming weeks, we hope that both youths and adults will join the net on Thursdays and spread the word.
----------

Field Day 2015 at the Clay Center 

Photo 1 - Kenneth KC1AHI (center) operating HF 
Photo 1 - CC-ARC Youth Members operating the GOTA station 
Photo 3 - Some of the CC-ARC Youth Members
----------

Wellesley Annual Veteran’s Parade 2015 ~ Tom Turner, KB1OQA

Sunday, May 17th  dawned Sunny with a forecast of warm temperatures as I and other Hams headed for Wellesley to provide communications support for their Town’s annual Veteran’s Parade. 

This event, held yearly to honor all who served our country, runs approximately three hours, and is comprised of floats, bands, marching units, and military vehicles. The route spans the area of the Route-9 and 16 intersection, which is the starting point and heads westbound. There were 144 units in the parade this year; they were staged along the line of march and phased into it as it progressed. The coordinators were more than a bit busy once it began.

Our briefing for this function, held at the Wellesley Community Center, began at 10 AM. The Team consisted of myself, Ed KC1CLA, Glen KC1BGR, Rich KB1MVK, Bob KB1BXQ, and Keilind KB1BSC. We were provided with maps of the route, along with lists by name, number, alphabetically, and by line-of-march of all units in the parade. 

I was assigned to the Registration Desk, which quickly became quite busy, to assist Parade Committee personnel with entrant check-in, and to provide information regarding their start locations. I ultimately became “Net Control” relaying necessary information such as entry into and exit from the parade, along with any other matters that needed attention, to the other radio team members who functioned as communications “shadows” for committee staff, the lead car,  reviewing stand, and start line personnel. 

The parade began promptly at 1 PM, and for the next few hours we were all busy providing situational awareness information as needed to anyone requesting it. 

Although it became quite hot and humid, there were no issues and, judging by the large turnout, the parade was enjoyed by all who participated in and viewed it. 

This was my first time working this event and I found It most enjoyable. It’s my intention to return next year. I’ve since learned that the Wellesley Parade Committee was very appreciative, pleased with our efforts, and will be using us in the future.
----------

The Amateur Radio Parity Act of 2015

The Amateur Radio Parity Act of 2015 -- H.R.1301 in the US House of Representative and S 1685 in the US Senate --  would direct the FCC to extend its rules relating to reasonable accommodation of Amateur Service communications to private land use restrictions. 

The Amateur Radio Parity Act would require the FCC to amend its Part 97 Amateur Service rules to apply the three-part test of the PRB-1 federal pre-emption policy to include homeowners association regulations and deed restrictions, often referred to as "covenants, conditions, and restrictions" (CC&Rs). At present, PRB-1 only applies to state and local zoning laws and ordinances. The FCC has been reluctant to extend the same legal protections to include private land-use agreements without direction from Congress.

H.R. 1301 has been referred to the House Energy and Commerce Committee. S 1685 has been referred to the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee's subcommittee on Communications, Technology, Innovation and the Internet.

ARRL members are urged to contact their members of both the House and the Senate, asking them to sign on to the bill as a co-sponsor. Route letters for your member of Congress to:

ARRL
Attn  Amateur Radio Parity Act grassroots campaign
225 Main St
Newington CT 06111

[Editors note: If you live in a CC&R restricted condo, etc., or think you may in the future, please write letters to your representative and senators.  For more information, including sample letters, see: 
http://www.arrl.org/amateur-radio-parity-act ]
----------

June Business Meeting ~  Bob Evans, Clerk, N1BE

The MMRA board met for a business meeting June 17 in Maynard, MA at 7:00 PM.  In attendance were: K1BOS, N1NVK, W1BRI, WA1NVC, W1MPN, K1IW, N1BDA, KC1CLA, N1BE, and K1KWP.

Kevin, K1KWP gave a treasurer's report.  This covered the final figures for the fiscal year that ended at the end of May.  We are in the black for that year with income exceeding expenses.

Bob, K1IW is in discussion with the company that owns the Hopkinton site about replacing some of our equipment that now is there.

Bob also reviewed speakers for meetings next year.  Two that we confirmed were K1KWP/NE1R for Sept., and N1BE for March.  (Others who volunteered, please confirm with K1IW.)

K1IW next discussed Boxboro.  There is one unfilled place at the dinner banquet on Saturday; contact Bob if you want to join us for dinner.  We will have a raffle for some door prizes.  As in the past, those who pay dues any time from now until Boxboro will get free raffle tickets.  K1KWP was volunteered to bring the fox box.  Bob then discussed the MMRA booth; we are still looking for a computer and projector or monitor for the display.

K1IW very briefly discussed the meeting of last night that reviewed the marathon communications.   Bob will send out his summary by email to those who asked for more details.

The group then discussed many repeater issues.  No power at Mendon.  Quincy is linked when it should not be.  Squeals and de-sense on 147.27.  Possible HUB2 audio level problem affecting linking commands?  Should we move a UHF repeater to Mendon since we are doing antenna work there?  The fans have been installed at Slygo and that project is complete.

The meeting adjourned at 8:12 PM.
----------

Next MMRA Business Meeting: Wednesday 21 October, 7PM @ Stratus, Maynard
----------

May Membership Meeting Notes 
Annual Meeting: Officers Report and General Elections

Slide 1 ~ Agenda
Introductions
Treasurer Report
Repeater Status
MMRA @ Boxboro
Elections

Slide 2 ~ Repeater Status
Sligo Project COMPLETE*
449.575 relocated to Marlborough East
New DStar 448.225
Transmitter Issues at 146.715 resolved
145.430 Rebuilt, DARI Network installed
53.810 Receiver on low antenna

Slide 3 ~ MMRA @ Boxboro	August 21-22-23
Summer Get-Together will be at the convention this year - $35 gets you a seat at the Saturday banquet.  Keynote speaker Gordon West
Volunteers needed for MMRA booth
Volunteers needed for the convention (free lunch)

Slide 4 ~ 2015 Elections
All current officers nominated for re-election
President		Bob DeMattia, K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey, N1BDA
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP
Secretary		John McGovern, W1JMC
Clerk			Bob Evans, N1BE
Director (2 year term)	Steve Schwarm, W3EVE
Director (2 year term)	Roger Coulson, WA1NVC
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Wed, 23 Sept ~ Membership Meeting
The Greatest Hobby in the World ~ Rick Roderick, K5UR
Northborough Public Library

Wed, 21 Oct ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 18 Nov ~ Membership Meeting
New Approaches to VHF/UHF Frequency Sharing ~ Lee Lemoine, N3LEE 
Holiday Inn, Boxborough 

Wed, 16 Dec ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 20 Jan ~ Membership Meeting
Microcontrollers for Radio and Other Applications
(Raspberry Pi, Arduino and Si5351)~ Bob Evans, N1BE 
Clay Center, Brookline

Wed, 17 Feb ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 16 Mar ~ Membership Meeting
Antenna Modeling, It's Easier than Building Them ~ Larry Banks, W1DYJ 
TBD

Wed, 20 Apr ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 18 May ~ Membership Meeting
Programming Your Radio with CHIRP ~ James Lee N1DDK 
and Annual Meeting: Officers Report and General Elections
Campion Center, Weston

Wed, 15 June ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Saturday, 27 Aug ~ Mid-summer Get Together
Boxboro ARRL Convention
Holiday Inn, Boxborough 
----------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	WA1JIM	Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 3 	KC1CLA	Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	KB1OQA	Tom Turner

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

MMRA Leaders
Officers
President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
* Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2017		Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director  »2017		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2016		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2016		Mike Neilsen	W1MPN

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.430	James Lee	N1DDK
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Boston 146.820	John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Brookline 145.160	Joyce DeMattia	N1QPH
* Brookline 146.820 Rcvr  Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Hopkinton 223.940	James Cahill	KB1LOY
* Lowell 442.250	Vince De La Flor K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.810, 449.575; Quincy 146.670
			Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.390, 147.270, 224.880,
 448.225, 449.925,  927.700 — all as W1MRA
		
	Bill Northup	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.610	Jim Podsiadlo	AE1C
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Weston 146.790	Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.700	Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.700	David Wolfe	KG1H


Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	David Wolfe	KG1H
* VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
	

* Appointed
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:

www.mmra.org è Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions

Second Saturday

9 AM at the Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      781-891-9079
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets

For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

19 Sep	Forestdale RI	RIAFMRS		@VFW
19 Sep	Fishkill NY 	MtBARC		@QWL
19 Sep	Alexander ME	SCVARC		@ElSch
20 Sep	Cambridge MA	Flea at MIT
26 Sep	Brookline NH	NEARC Antique
16,17 Oct Deerfield 	NEARfest XVIII 	@FG
17,18 Oct Wakefield MA Photographica 	@AmericalCtr
18 Oct	Cambridge MA	Flea at MIT
18 Oct	Meriden CT	Nutmeg		@Sheraton
18 Oct	Queens NY	HOSARC		@HoS
25 Oct 	Hicksville NY	LIMARC		@LevitHall
31 Oct	Gails Ferry CT	TCARC		@FireCo
14 Nov	Bourne MA	FARA 		@UpperCC VoTech
 5 Dec	Windsor CT	VR+C Mus	@115 Pierson LN
 6 Feb	Springfield VT	CVFMA.org	@VFW
27 Feb	S Burlington VT RANVT		@HI
 5 Mar	Chicopee MA	MtTomARA	@MooseLodge
 6 Mar	Westford MA	Radio		@Regency
12 Mar 	Dayville CT	ECARA		@StJosephCh
20 Mar	Southington CT			@HS
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER

