The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman
Volume 40, Number 2
November 2010
------------

Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, 17 November 2010 @ 7:30 PM
AMSAT Today
Barry Baines ~ WD4ASW
Northborough Free Library ~ 34 Main Street (Rt. 20), Northborough
Talk in — 147.27

Barry Baines, president of the Amateur Satellite organization will brief us on
the current goings-on both here on Earth and in space.

Directions to The Northborough Free Library
Directions from I-495:
>From I-495, take Exit 24B which is Rt. 20 West toward Northborough.
Follow Rt. 20 West about 3.5 miles, into the center of Northborough.
Opposite the Gulf Station on the right, turn left into Patty Lane.
The Northborough Free Library parking lot will be on the left.
---------------

MMRA D-Star Repeater Out of Service for a major upgrade

In 2008, MMRA placed it's D-Star repeater on-the-air from our Marlborough East location.  Last year, we moved it to the top of the Prudential tower in Boston.  We had some issues getting the D-Star Gateway working on it, so it was taken down last summer for some work in a more hospitable place.  While this work neared completion, we found some things we can do to improve the receiver selectivity.  This was sorely need as the RF environment at the Pru was overloading the receiver.  We will be replacing the Icom receiver with a GE Mastr II receiver—something that was done with much success by another club in Maine.  We are waiting for some parts, then we have to modify the Mastr II.  For this reason, the repeater will be off for at least two more months.  If you have some Mastr II experience and would like to contribute on this project, contact Bob, K1IW k1iw@mmra.org.
-----------------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      781-891-9079
Evenings 6 - 10 PM   Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.
Accredited by the ARRL VEC
-------------

President‘s Corner
Bob DeMattia (K1IW)

The weekly "Technical Information and Other Stuff net" is a long standing MMRA tradition.  This has been held at 8PM on Tuesday evenings for as long as anyone can remember!  Club members meet on the air to discuss a topic of the week.  Updates on the club activities and repeater status are often disseminated as well.   The TIOS net gives those members who may not be able to attend our in-person meetings a way to participate in club activities.  Have you checked into the net lately?  All it takes is a working radio.  During the net, nearly all of the MMRA repeaters are linked, so all you need to be is near enough to any MMRA repeater to check-in.

Want to do even more?  We've been advertising that we need net control operators to run these nets for a long time now.  Unfortunately, we've haven't yet found enough people to regularly staff the nets.  All it takes in a 1 hour time commitment once a month.  If you are interested in being a TIOS net control, contact our net manager, Larry, W1DYJ - his email is w1dyj@mmra.org.

If you can't get that involved, we'd still like to hear from you once in a while on the air.  Why not check in next Tuesday night!
-----------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
-------------

New Massachusetts Driver Law
The New Massachusetts anti texting law is now in effect. Thanks to KB1OQA the text of the new law is available at < http://www.mmra.org/massachusetts_anti_texting_bill.pdf > with the portion pertaining to the amateur radio exemption highlighted in bold. A suggestion (also from KB1OQA) is that amateur radio operators may want to have a copy of this law with a copy on their FCC license in their glove compartments.
-------------

Pictures from the Membership Meeting of 15 September at the Lexington Library

Coax is really 
three conductors

Dave Allred, N1VU

What your 
antenna 
really looks like!
--------------

Pictures from our future Sligo shelter

Last fall Bob, N1KMA, donated an Army communications shelter to the club.  Keith, KB1OEI, of Land‘s Towing brought it down from Maine.  

This past month a number of work parties continued the project by cleaning it up and started equipment  installation.  

First — clean up the outside.  Bob, K1IW, at the business end of a 3500 psi power washer...
...and after one coat of paint...
..and finally, after the final coat of paint.
The inside was even more interesting.  
Before, to the right >>
Some of the work party to the left <<
James, N1DDK, inspecting the power panel >>
James, has been the overall project lead, and has planned the layout, below. 

The MMRA wants to thank the following hams for all of the good work done recently.  The editor asks for forgiveness from those hams who participated but are not listed.

K1IW, Bob; N1DDK, James; KB1IUM, Mickey; KB1UKU; Russ; K3FG; Harold; KK1X; John; W1DYJ, Larry; KB1KGZ, Bruce; KB1TTF, Richard; N1NVK, Clark; KB1LKR, Steve
-------------

Treasurer's Report ~ Kevin Paetzold (K1KWP)

So where does our money come from and where does it go?  The charts included herein show expected club expenses and income for this fiscal year, which is expected to be a normal year. 

Bucket Descriptions:

Newsletter expense: Printing and mailing costs for the new
Improvements & Maint: Investment and repairs to the repeater system.
Misc: things that do not fall into other categories.  (PO Box, Corporation Fees, non newsletter postage.  Raffle prizes, shipping for raffle prizes, etc....)
MRE Rent: "rent" paid for the space that MRE repeater site occupies.   This payment is actually supposed to cover our electricity use.
Insurance:  The club‘s insurance policy.
ISP: MMRA website hoster is JEAH.
Galaxy: DSL and phone access at MRW.  
MRW Power:  Power for the MRW repeater site. 

This next chart shows the "Improvements and Maint." spending for the last 6 or 7 years.

The next chart shows the actual/projected income for this year.  The income distribution for most years is very similar.  Note that the "Expected Dues" bucket is money that we have not actually received yet (but which we hope to receive if everyone renews).

The last graph shows the dues that have been collected for the last 7 years including the $975 in expected remaining dues for this year and the $1340 of dues that we have already collected for next year (due to 2 year renewals).
----------------

MMRA October Board of Directors Meeting
Steve Telsey — N1BDA — Acting Clerk

20 October 2010
Attendees: K1IW; N1BDA; N1NVK; W3EVE; WA1NVC; K1RJZ

Moved and voted without objection or abstention to accept the Treasurer’s report.  Membership renewals are running about average.  Two-year memberships, previously available only at Boxboro, are now on the web.  We need to reassess the situation with hard-copy newsletters –continue with a limited number or eliminate them.

Current Projects:

Sligo
	Shelter work is scheduled for October 23.  Primary projects are mechanical rehabilitation and painting.   Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $200 for mechanical work.
	Moved and voted without objection or abstention to reaffirm the previous club approval to replace the existing shelter and to approve $600 for electrical work.  There will be additional foundation, fence, and mast work when the new shelter is installed.

D-Star Repeater
	Technical decision was made to link the Icom controller with a Mastr II utilizing a conversion/adapter kit.  New crystals and IF filters will also be required.  Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $460 for this work.

224.400 Status
	Work on the Quincy unit is pending.
449.575 Status
	Brian, W1BRI, is currently working on the system.  The unit is from Southboro and the old 5K controller is being replaced with a 7K. 

442.250 Status
	K1ST donated this repeater to the club.  Saints Medical Center in Lowell wants to host this machine.  The repeater would provide additional coverage along the north end of I-495.  The hospital will do the antenna installation work.
	Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $400 for coax and lightning protection.
	Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $140 for a link radio and antenna.
	Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $275 for an SCOM 7K controller to maintain uniformity among MMRA systems.

Newsletter:  The Newsletter and possible future articles was discussed.  Articles and especially pictures are welcome from any members.  

Net Control:  Another Net Control is needed for the Tuesday net.  Some nets have been cancelled because of the lack of a Net Control.  Individual training on being a Net Control operator is available.  Regular participants are especially invited to become Net Control operators.

Other Business:  The MMRA repeaters use SCOM 7K controllers and coding has been standardized.  There are currently no spares available.   Moved and voted without objection or abstention to approve $350 to purchase a spare SCOM 7K controller.
--------------

2010—2011 Membership Meetings

15 September Meeting 
Lexington Public Library ~ 7:30 PM
Dave Allred, N1VU
Antenna Myths: Transmission Line Tall Tales

17 November Meeting 
Northborough Public Library ~ 7:30 PM
Barry Baines, President of AMSAT

19 January Meeting 
Pizzeria Uno, Newton MA ~ 7:00 PM
MMRA Mid-Winter Pizza Gathering

16 March Meeting 
TBD ~ 7:00 PM
MMRA Pre-St. Patty’s Day Activities

18 May Meeting 
TBD ~ 7:00 PM
MMRA General Elections and ????

Board of Directors Meetings

Wed, Oct 20	Southborough House of Pizza	
Wed, Dec 15	Stratus, Maynard 	
Wed, Feb 17	Conexant, Waltham 	
Wed, Apr 21	No meeting in April 	
Wed, Jun 16	Kennedy's Pub
-------------

MMRA Leaders
Officers
President		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey	N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern	W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans	N1BE
Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2011		Steve Schwarm	W3EVE
Director  »2011		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2012		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2012		Mike Neilsen	W1MPN

Repeater Trustees, Appointed
Belmont 145.430		Larry Arone	WA1RTT
Boston 927.0625		Rick Zach	K1RJZ
Brookline 146.820	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
Burlington 146.715	Chris Conti	N1NVL
Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Hopkinton 223.940	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Marlboro 53.810, Quincy 146.670, Southboro 449.575		Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
Marlboro 144.390, 145.160, 147.270, 224.880, 449.925, Weston 442.700, 927.700 — all as W1MRA
			Bill Northup	N1QPR
Mendon 146.610		Jim Podsiadlo	AE1C
Quincy 224.400		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
Weston 146.790		Bob Evans	N1BE
Weston 224.700		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM

Appointed, non-Voting
Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Emergency  Coord.	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Public Service Coord.  Bruce Pigott	KC1US
VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
Web Page Editor		ob DeMattia	K1IW
-----------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net


The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

We need another net control!  Over the past few months there have been some weeks when the Net was not activated as we only have three and need at least four. 

If you would like to try your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org  – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:
Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	???		shared	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks

To connect using the digital modes during the Net, use the New England Reflector:
	For IRLP use node 9127
	For Echolink, connect via *NEW-ENG*.  You can find this under “Node Types” >> “Conferences”

NOTE — during the net, the Echolink 
Conference Connection has recently changed to
 *NEW-ENG*.
-----------

Public Service Events

See this web site for contact information

http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

This Web Site is no longer being updated.  If anyone knows of a new site, please let the editor know: W1DYJ @mmra.org
-----------

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information

http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

20 Nov 		Rockport MA CAARA @PigonCove
  4 Dec 	Windsor CT VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN
19 Feb 		Marlborough MA AARC @MS 
20 Feb 		Westford MA GBARC RadioXLII @Regency Antique
26 Feb 		Colchester VT HAM-CON @Hampton
  5 Mar 	Feeding Hills MA MtTARA @TurnverneinClb
20 Mar 		Southington CT SARA @HS
  3 Apr 	Framingham MA FARA @KeefeTech
16 Apr 		Manchester NH NHAntqRC @Bingo
17 Apr 		Cambridge MA            FLEA at MIT
29,30 Apr 	Deerfield NH Nearfest IX @FG
14 May 		E Greenbush NY EGARA @FD
-------------

END OF NEWSLETTER