The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman

Volume 37, Number 2
November 2007
------------------------------------
Membership Meeting ~ 14 November, 7:30 PM @ MEMA in Framingham
NOTE: This is a week earlier than normal!
Bob Stone, N1KMA		The Wide Area Amateur Radio Network

Bob is a key player in the Wide Area Amateur Radio Network (WAARN). The network consists of seven full time linked repeaters in Maine and New Hampshire, including two sets of three synchronous transmitters on 145.21 and on 441.50. When you are operating within the network area, your signal is voted by the three receivers and retransmitted on all three transmitters. But, the system is more than that - all repeaters are tied to a central HUB via common carrier. The network can be controlled via traditional DTMF but also through a web interface that displays the current system status. Bob will describe their system and also talk about future plans.

------------------------------------

President’s Message ~ Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Much is being discussed about the advent of the Japan Amateur Radio League's D-Star standard.  The JARL developed this in cooperation with several Japanese companies.
	So far, only ICOM is producing D-Star based amateur equipment.  ICOM's sales have been off to a slow start, but things appear to be picking up a bit.  D-Star is a standard for  transmitting digital data.  In one form, it can send high-speed data on the 23cm band.  However it also has a voice mode, for which ICOM manufactures equipment for 2m, 70cm, and 23cm.  ICOM claims voice mode requires only 6.25 KHz bandwidth.  
	In many regions of the country, including New England, the repeater coordinators have adopted a modified band plan which allows D-Star repeaters on the splinter channels between existing analog system in the 145.11 - 145.49 repeater band.
	As long at the adjacent channel stations are more than 50 miles distant, no appreciable interference is inflicted on the analog repeaters.  This opens up a few repeater channels in areas that have been full for decades.  Beyond this, for each group that converts from an analog system to D-Star, a new repeater pair is born.  
	D-Star equipment is far from cheap - the IC-2820H dual bander will get you back about $900 - but this is similar to the price of dual bander analog rigs when they first starting being sold in the 90's.  If the standard catches on, we can expect other manufacturers to enter the market, and prices to drop.  
	At the very least, D-Star is amateur-radio's venture into new technology.  Isn't that a part of what our hobby has always been about?
been about?

------------------------------------

MMRA October Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

Minutes of the MMRA board meeting of 17 October at the offices of Stratus Technology.

Meeting commenced at 7:30

Present were K1KWP, K1IW, W1BRI, WA1NVC, N1BDA & N1BE.

	Newsletter editor wants to remind everyone to get their articles to him before the end of the month.

Treasurer’s report
	Behind on dues collection so far. Have already spent all dues collected except about $324.  Need about 92 more memberships to cover our expected expenses. Need to include membership forms and plea for dues in the next two newsletters. The biggest expense is electricity: $900/year. Some discussion about solar, switching supplies, etc., for ways to reduce this charge...Particularly at MRW.

Repeater / Project updates
	Weston 2 hub upgrade: site work on Oct 27th.  Concern about using old hardline because a broken connector might not be easily available.  We think there is enough room in the conduit to run another cable if necessary.  Bryan is still working on Hub 2, so the link radio changes (Mendon and Weston) will happen after that is done. None the less, it is better to do the antenna work before bad weather sets in. 
	Also discussed possible antenna reconfiguration at Weston of corner reflector, dipole array, 220 antenna mounted atop the dipole array. See http://mmra.org/repeaters/map.html for system-level view of the project.
	K1IW to visit Weston tomorrow and take measurements. W1BRI to propose scenarios for antenna reconfiguration.
	At Mendon, need to move link radio to port 3 for consistency. Also planning a link radio swap so Mendon can set link frequency to either Hub 1 or 2.
	Need to fix roof at Quincy which was discovered damaged during tower work last April. W1BRI to set date for work party.
	Stoneham - Bryan has MMRA's 50 Amp Astron power supply. Will use this to replace one on loan from N1BDA. Or possibly W1BRI will fix the 35 A supply that previously was at Stoneham. In either case, will get Steve's PS back to him by the end of December 
	Moved to buy a M-120 UHF 2-way radio from K1IW to replace Stoneham exciter and two UHF amps. Passed with K1IW abstaining.
	Moved to sell exciter and two amps from STO on ebay. Passed.
	Voted to allow Marlboro flea talk-in to use 147.27 for their flea in mid-February.
	Still need to put up V-2000 antenna at Sligo. (No discussion).

	MMRA participation in MARC consortium for next year. (Boston Marathon). Passed motion to continue participation in 2008.

MMRA participation at Boxboro, Aug 22-24, 2008. We agree to participate as we have in the past. Need to discuss items like: 
Whether to have raffle.
Displays/ video presentation?
Antenna analyzer?
Equipment for talk-in.
Discount for paying dues for two years.

	N1KMA (not present) (http://ham.cleocat.com) proposal for D-Star @ Marlborough East site.  His inter-linked sites at southern Maine and Chester NH are used for ARES traffic.  He is looking for a site in EMA to provide digital access on 2M. We discussed possibilities at MRW, MRE, Stoneham. He will talk about D-star at the Nov MMRA meeting. We'd like to accommodate him at one site, MRE, and prefer that he link to his network via the Internet. The board proposed that he provides D-Star repeater, internet (shared with MMRA for echolink), and a very modest rent. We supply shelter, 2-meter antenna, electricity. K1IW to suggest our proposal to him and setup a meeting for further negotiation. 

	N1JBC repeaters' affiliation of two 70CM and one 2M repeaters in RI.  We have contact info and codes to turn his link to us off. One downside is more confusion to determine where potential interference is originating.  Would like to be able to disconnect his link from our end. We proposed provisional affiliation, not displayed on our web site.  Will finalize or cancel this affiliation at next board meeting.  Want to monitor whether he is regularly linked for TIOS and HHTN nets.  (W1BRI to monitor)

Meeting plans for Jan, Mar, May.
	Is there a meeting site near Stoneham?  Is Co-generation plant tour at Stoneham hospital possible?
	Possible joint meeting with AARC in Jan in Marlboro. Do they have a speaker?  If not, can we get tour by Donnie Cusson?
	Want to meet in Weston in Mar or May. Need suggested speakers. Member suggestions would be welcome.

Other Items
	MMRA Director W1WH never is free on Wednesday nights for meetings. Can we move board meetings to another night. Can he draft someone else for his seat?

	Public Service coordinator may be moving out of the area. Do we need a replacement? We need to clarify process that he is the one who can authorize use of our repeaters for events.

	ARES drill on Oct 27th. There will may be check-ins to a net for that event on MMRA repeaters. (Weston will be down for work party some of that day.)

Meeting adjourned at 10:15PM.

------------------------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928

------------------------------------

Treasurer’s Report

Income	2007-2008 Dues			$1914.71
	Donations			   87.39
	Misc.		 	            0.00
	Total				$2002.10

Number of members renewed to date = 80
Number additional expected = 121  ($2303)

Expenses	Spent to date		$  868.32
	Expected expenses	 	  3595.75
	Total			  	 $4464.07

CURRENT DEFICIT		$2461.97

------------------------------------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Date 		Location 		Feature
Sep 19 7 PM 	Westborough Library 	Solar Powered Stations, Phil, N1XTB 
Oct 17 		Stratus Computer 	Board Meeting
Nov 14 		MEMA 			Wide Area Amateur Radio Network,Bob N1KMA
Dec 19 		TBD 			Board Meeting
Jan 16		TBD 			TBD
Feb 20		TBD			Board Meeting
Mar 19		TBD			TBD
Apr 16		TBD			Board Meeting
May 21		TBD			General Elections 

------------------------------------

Update on Stoneham 440
Larry Banks, W1DYJ

As you all know, the Stoneham 446.725 repeater is one of the repeaters that has been cited by the Air Force for interfering with the Pave Paws radar system on Cape Cod.  

Our original RF power was ~63 Watts ERP — 20 Watts output to a 5 dB vertical.  We were asked to reduce our RF in that direction by 24 dB.  

The MMRA has installed a corner reflector antenna pointed away from Cape Cod.  This antenna has 40 dB Front-to-Back attenuation and 10 dB forward gain.  This should be sufficient to mitigate the problem.

Overall, while mitigating our interference to Pave Paws, this should improve the MMRA’s coverage on 440 from the North to the North-West.  With 20 Watts and 10 dB gain the ERP toward Lowell and Concord NH should be 200 Watts.  In the cone shown by the green lines it should be >100 Watts ERP.

We expect that this will make both the MMRA and the Air Force happy.

------------------------------------

October Membership Meeting ~ Larry Banks, W1DYJ

Phil McNamara, N1XTB, was our featured speaker.  Phil is an expert on solar power and he gave us a great overview of how to use solar power for both emergency power and in your shack.  He also gave us a very useful handout of extensive information about solar power.

Phil also demonstrated a number of items, from solar panels to emergency lights, to a complete portable and emergency power system.

Before Phil’s presentation, Bob, K1IW, revisited the recent events surrounding Stoneham 440 and Pave Paws:
Jul 2006 — USAF contractor conducts interference investigation
Aug 2006 — MMRA is informed about possible interference
Oct 2006 — USAF lists 15 repeaters in Boston area. ARRL is involved.  Letters to trustees are sent.
Feb 2007 — USAF sends letter to FCC requesting mitigation by 1 May
May 2007 — ARRL submits plan to USAF to calculate mitigation
Sep 2007 — MMRA receives letter detailing required 24 dB reduction
Sep 2007 — 442.950, 443,450, 443.500, 443.800, 444.250, 447.075 go silent
Oct 2007 — Corner reflector installed at Stoneham 446.725

------------------------------------

MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			John McGovern		W1JMC
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2006-08		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2006-08		Bill Hanrahan		W1WH
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency  Coordinator		James Cahill		KB1LOY
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	James Cahill		KB1LOY
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW

------------------------------------

Don’t Forget!
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

We need a control operator for the first and third  Tuesdays  of each month – contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org if you would like to running the net some evening – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	?????		We Need You!	
Week 2	W1EUJ		Dave Goncalves	
Week 3	?????		We Need You!	
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks 

------------------------------------

Calendar of Ham Radio Events

Public Service Events 
See this web site for contact information
http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

Nothing Listed

New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

 8 Dec 		Windsor CT 	VR+C Mus 
16 Feb 		Marlboro MA 	AARC 
17 Feb 		Westford MA 	Radio 39 Antique 
23 Feb 		Milton VT 	RANV 
30 Mar 		Southington CT 	SARA 
 6 Apr 		Framingham MA 	FARA
19 Apr 		Manchester NH 	NEAntqRC 
20 Apr		Cambridge MA 	FLEA at MIT
2-3 May		Deerfield NH 	NearFest
18 May		Cambridge MA    	FLEA at MIT
30-31 May  	Rochester NY	RARA
 7 Jun		Hermon ME 	PSARC
22-24 Aug 	Boxboro MA	FEMARA  NE Conv

------------------------------------

End of Newsletter
