The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  
----------

The Minuteman
Volume 45, Number 3
January 2016


Membership Meeting ~ Wednesday, January  20 ~ 7 PM
Aduino,  Raspberry Pi and Radio Applications

Bob Evans, N1BE
Location: The Campion Center, 319 Concord Road, Weston
Talk-in 147.27

This presentation will cover computer basics and technology changes that led to the construction of single board computers.  With that background, we will look at the Arduino and Raspberry Pi;  the capabilities of each board and how do they differ; and how you decide if one or the other is more appropriate for a particular application.  A demonstration of Arduino programming and discussion of some radio applications for Arduino and Raspberry Pi will conclude the talk.  An Arduino Uno will be given away as a door prize.

Bob Evans, N1BE was first licensed as WN2EZS in 1972.  Since receiving his BS in Computer 
Science and Engineering, Bob has been employed as an engineer for over 40 years by 
companies that design and manufacture computers.  At home Bob uses multiple Raspberry Pi's for controlling lights, running web cameras, as a video recorder and as a file server.  When not pursuing his technical interests, Bob and his wife Anne, N1MPF, enjoy boating, gourmet 
cooking and wine.  (Bob is also the Clerk of the MMRA, a member of the MMRA Board of Directors, and trustee of the Weston 146.790 repeater.)

----------

Note: MMRA bylaws require that anyone who wishes to receive a paper copy of the Newsletter remit an additional $10 each membership year.  Most of those receiving a paper copy HAVE NOT PAID THIS EXTRA AMOUNT.
Paper copies will no longer be mailed to members who have not paid this additional fee after this fiscal year.
----------

Are you one of the ~100 members who have not yet 
renewed?
All 2014 memberships expired on August 31st! Renew on the member's login link at www.mmra.org or by U.S. Mail with a check to MMRA, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01665
----------

Boston Marathon Announcement

The MMRA is no longer involved in organizing the
Boston Marathon.  (See the President’s Corner.)

If you are interested in participating, go to:

http://www.baa.org/races/boston-marathon/event-information/volunteer-information.aspx
----------

The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern Massachusetts.

The MMRA meets (usually) on the 3rd Wednesday of each month from September to June.  Meeting times, locations, and talk-in frequency vary and are announced in this newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.  Guest speakers and programs of general interest occur in September, November, January, March, and May.  The intervening meetings are also open to all members and are for general business.

The Minuteman newsletter is Emailed one week before each general interest meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles which can be sent to the editor at 
newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.

Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!

Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.

Email to the club leadership should be sent to 
contact@mmra.org. The MMRA maintains a web site at:  http://www.mmra.org/
An email distribution list for club members named “MMRA” is at: www.yahoogroups.com/.  

You can also follow us on twitter @mmraham and like us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mmraham.
No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
----------

MMRA QRM Policy
MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater 
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective way (and probably the only effective way) to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident.  Measures are being taken to make audio recordings of repeater activity.
----------

President’s Corner ~ Bob DeMattia ~ K1IW

MMRA and the Boston Marathon

Prior to 2004, the amateur radio effort at the Boston Marathon was organized by three individuals.  Although the individuals communicated with each other, they worked fairly independently.  In 2004, a consortium was organized between MMRA, Framingham Amateur Radio Association, and Boston Amateur Radio Club to consolidate the effort.  MMRA took the lead role.  Over the next ten years, we saw the voluntary departure of Boston Amateur Radio Club from the consortium and the addition of other clubs.  However the general operation remained more or less the same.  The consortium remained in place until last year when BAA chose to form a committee of amateur radio operators to run the effort.  

Earlier this month, I stated the MMRA position on this in an email to all BAA volunteers.  It would be worthy to reprint that email, so here goes:

	As you may have seen in an earlier email from BAA, for 2016 the BAA communications committee 
	will be performing all the planning and execution functions associated with the amateur radio 
	volunteer effort.  As such, MMRA will not be involved in any pre-race activities.  Please 
	direct any questions you may have to the BAA committee directly.  MMRA will still support 
	the BAA committee efforts in whatever ways we are needed - for example - supplying repeaters 
	for use during the event.  The MMRA board wishes the BAA committee the best in their new endeavor.

There has been some public expression of negative sentiment toward this change.  In particular, the undiplomatic way in which this was done led to negative feelings among some key individuals.  Regardless of past mistakes, the new organization is likely to remain in place.  The public service opportunity afforded by the marathon is still a boon to our hobby.   As such, it is time to put away the past and move forward.  MMRA fully supports the efforts of the new committee.  As I stated in my email, the MMRA board wishes the committee success and we encourage our volunteers to participate and support the effort.
----------

MMRA Hopkinton Site Visit ~ 223.940MHz.

James Cahill, KB1LOY and Bryan Cerqua ~ W1BRI

Bryan Cerqua, W1BRI, and James Cahill, KB1LOY, visited the Hopkinton Repeater site on 25 September, 2015, to conduct routine inspection and maintenance.  Access to the site is restricted and requires an appointment for all visitors.  Upon arrival we were given access into the shelter where the repeater was found to be functioning but not putting out the intended power.  We immediately noticed that new ceiling tiles were installed by the shelter host since our last visit. 

ANTENNA PROPERLY TUNED
Feedlines, grounding, and power cables were visually inspected and appeared in order. The repeater was opened, visually inspected and tested.  The transmit SWR was measured using Bryan’s new toy: the MFJ-226, 1-230 MHZ antenna Expert Times Graphic Analyzer and found to be a respectable 1.33:1 (optimum frequency measured to be 224.31 @ SWR of 1.09:1). Feedlines from the shelter to the tower were inspected, found in order and without issues.

OUTPUT POWER DISCOVERED EXTREMELY LOW, CORRECTED WITH TEMP CABLE 
The output power to the antenna was tested with the Bird Watt Meter and found extremely low, less than 1 watt. Investigating further, the input to the RF Concepts Amplifier was measured to be acceptable at 6 watts.  The output of the amplifier was acceptable at 58 watts.  The duplexer output cable to the antenna was removed and when replaced with a temporary jumper the power output was measured to be a reasonable 42 watts.  The existing output cable was removed from service and a temporary cable was left in place.  The end connections of the nonperforming cable were suspect and brought back to W1BRI’s shop for reworking. The final observation was the supply current at 17.5 Amps.   A follow-up visit will be scheduled to return the cable to service. 

CEILING TILE REPLACEMENT, BAD NEWS => GOOD NEWS
Comparing the 2014 pictures to the 2015 pictures, it appears the cabinet and duplexers were moved around.  The loose connections likely are related to the ceiling tile replacement work done inside the shelter.  However, the good news is that comparing the ceiling from 2014 to 2015 there is great improvement to the shelter environment and there was no cost to the MMRA.  	

We noted the SCOM 7K repeater controller appeared to function properly. The shelter was then secured.  

Respectfully submitted,
Bryan, W1BRI and James, KB1LOY

	Photo 1 -- 2014 
repeater/duplexer positions
	Photo 2 -- 2015 
repeater/duplexer positions
	Photo 3 -- 2014 
ceiling view
	Photo 4 -- 2015 
ceiling view
----------

Boston 900 Repair Trip ~ Roger Coulson, WA1NVC


John, K1BOS, Randy, N3HFK, and Steve, KC1HO, met Dave (WCVB’s contact person) at 11:00 AM on 28 Nov, 2015 at the Boston 900 MHz repeater site.  K1BOS, organized the work party.  Both the low power and high power PA's in the MSF5000 repeater were replaced.  The high power PA is definitely bad.



At 1:00 pm the crew determined that the forward and reflected power sampler in the repeater was also bad.



Roger, WA1NVC removed the power sampler from his backup 900 MHz repeater, drove into Boston, delivered the part, and returned home to continue assisting with the repair remotely. 

Steve, KC1HO, supplied a new PiRLP node that he was about to install on the 145.39 repeater.  The first problem was the audio was too loud coming out of the Scom 7K controller and could not be adjusted low enough on the PiRLP.  With remote assistance from Roger, WA1NVC, Randy, N3HFK, located the Scom 7K output pot for IRLP was found to be set at maximum.  Randy, N3HFK, changed this to the mid point and Steve, KC1HO, was then able to complete the standard IRLP audio setup.

There was a problem with constant beeping on the IRLP audio.  After a lot of troubleshooting, it was determined to be a bad ground connection between the PiRLP and the MSF5000.



The audio levels were observed remotely on the service monitor by WA1NVC.  Tests were made on the Near-900 net using the Marlboro, Marshfield, Cumberland, Barnstable, and Warwick repeaters.  The levels and operation seemed just fine.  The cause of the repeater failures was not obvious but WCVB reported that  there was a lightning strike back in September.



Steve, KC1HO, took the old IRLP board home so he can continue with the 145.39 PiRLP project.  The MMRA has purchased and replaced the parts Steve, KC1HO, used to make the new PiRLP node.



John, K1BOS, has returned to Weston the power supply that was not needed, the two PA's of which the high power unit is known bad, and the old IRLP computer.



Randy, N3HFK, has provided a replacement forward and reflected power sampler to WA1NVC.

The PiRLP has worked out so well that at the last board meeting, K1IW, proposed that the MMRA replace the 4133 and 4978 IRLP nodes using old computers with PiRLP nodes.  There are no plans to replace 4136 at this time.



Thanks go to John, K1BOS, for organizing the Boston 900 MHz repeater repair operation and providing the pizza.
----------

Mike Neilsen, W1MPN, will lead FY’16 budget process.

Mike, W1MPN, will lead the development of a budget for the next fiscal year.   If you are interested in 
being involved in this task, please contact him at w1mpn@mmra.org or w1mpn@comcast.net
----------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
-----------

December Business Meeting
Bob Evans, Clerk, N1BE

  The MMRA board met for a business meeting in Northborough at 7:30 PM on Dec 16 in Northborough.  In attendance were K1KWP, N1DDK, W1DYJ, N1BE, WA1NVC, KG1H, W1MPN, N1BDA, N1NVK  and K1IW who hosted the meeting.  (Thanks Bob and Joyce for the great food and hospitality!)

  The first agenda item was a Treasurer’s Report by K1KWP reviewing income, expenses and balances.  Kevin noted that we are sending paper newsletters to a few members who have not paid the $10 necessary to defray the costs associated with paper mailings.  K1KWP also reviewed counts of members that have renewed or not.  There are a hundred dues paying members that have not yet renewed by paying dues for the current membership year that began on Sept 1. 

  K1IW gave a repeater report as follows.

  The Boston 900 MHz IRLP node was replaced by a Raspberry Pi based node for less than $150.  The board approved an expenditure of up to $250 to build a Raspberry Pi based replacement for the old and power hungry 4133 & 4978 nodes.

  Bob then discussed negotiations on a new contract for leasing space in the Kinder Morgan Hopkinton site.  One concern is that the MMRA would have insurance that the landlord requires.  The board approved an annual incremental expenditure of $350 for Worker's Compensation, employee and vehicle insurance.  This insurance will cover the MMRA at all sites, not just at Hopkinton.

Bob next discussed the benefit of Internet connectivity to the remaining five MMRA repeater sites that do not yet have it (Marlborough East, Burlington, Hopkinton Quincy and Lowell).  After a small expenditure of about $50 per site, connectivity can be free for the first 500 megabytes each month.  This would be sufficient for control purposes although we might need to add a board to the some 7K repeater controllers to add a serial port.  The board approved an up to $100 expenditure to purchase one Raspberry Pi and the modem necessary for this connectivity at one site.  After experimenting with this prototype, we will consider whether to deploy at the not presently connected sites.  (This connection method uses a Freedompop U770 USB LTE modem). 

W1DYJ re-opened a discussion of the proposal to affiliate with NEAR (New England Amateur Radio, Inc.).  NEAR is an organization to promote Amateur Radio as an educational STEM activity.  W1DYJ and N1DDK have a tentatively approved affiliation agreement with the MMRA.  The MMRA board has a week to review and comment on this agreement and send comments back to W1DYJ, with the intent that K1IW would sign after this comment period and forward back to NEAR, Inc.

W1DYJ reports that Burlington 440 audio is distorted.  K1IW suggested that he check to see if the transmitter is off frequency. 

W1MPN is still looking for a volunteer from the membership to help draw up a budget for the next MMRA fiscal year. 

The board approved a proposal that K1IW arrange for the MMRA to take possession of equipment from the shack of W1JDO (SK).  This may occur the week of the January meeting.  If so, we may have a mini flea market at that time.

The meeting adjourned at 9:10 PM
----------

Next MMRA Business Meeting: 
Wednesday 17 February, 7PM
Stratus, Maynard
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings


Wed, 20 Jan ~ Membership Meeting
Aduino,  Raspberry Pi and Radio Applications
Bob Evans, N1BE 
Clay Center, Brookline

Wed, 17 Feb ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 16 Mar ~ Membership Meeting
Antenna Modeling, It's Easier than (re) Building Them
Larry Banks, W1DYJ 
TBD

Wed, 20 Apr ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Wed, 18 May ~ Membership Meeting
Programming Your Radio with CHIRP
James Lee N1DDK 
...and Annual Meeting: Officers Report and General Elections
Campion Center, Weston

Wed, 15 June ~ Business Meeting
Stratus, Maynard

Saturday, 27 Aug ~ Mid-summer Get Together
Boxboro ARRL Convention
Holiday Inn, Boxborough 
----------

MMRA Leaders

Officers
President		Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President		Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary		John McGovern		W1JMC
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk			Bob Evans		N1BE
* Technical Officer	Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI

Board of Directors
Director  »2017		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director  »2017		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Director  »2016		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director  »2016		Mike Neilsen		W1MPN

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.430	James Lee		N1DDK
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach		K1RJZ
* Boston 146.820	John Mullaney 		K1BOS
* Brookline 145.160	Joyce DeMattia		N1QPH
* Brookline 146.820 Rcvr  Bob Phinney		K5TEC
* Burlington 146.715	Bruce Pigott		KC1US
* Burlington 446.775	Larry Banks		W1DYJ
* Hopkinton 223.940	James Cahill		KB1LOY
* Lowell 442.250	Vince De La Flor	K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.810, 449.575; Quincy 146.670;
		 
	Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.390, 147.270, 224.880,

       448.225, 449.925,  927.700 — all as W1MRA
		
	Bill Northup		N1QPR
* Mendon 146.610	Jim Podsiadlo		AE1C
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn		N1KUG
* Weston 146.790	Bob Evans		N1BE
* Weston 224.700	Eddie Mulhern		N1NOM
* Weston 442.700	David Wolfe		KG1H


Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks		W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	David Wolfe		KG1H
* VEC Liaison		Bill Wade		K1IJ
* Net Manager		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia		K1IW

* Appointed
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:

www.mmra.org è Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions

Third Saturday

9 AM at the Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      781-891-9079
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets

For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

6 Feb 		Springfield VT 		CVFMA.org @VFW 
13 Feb 		Marlboro MA  		AARC  @MS
27 Feb 		S Burlington VT 	RANV  @HI
28 Feb 		Hicksville NY 		LIMARC @LevitHall
 5 Mar 		Chicopee MA 		MtTomARA @MooseLodge
 6 Mar 		Westford MA 		@Regency
19 Mar 		Dayville CT E		CARA @StJosephCh
20 Mar 		Southington CT 		@HS
25,26 Mar 	Lewiston ME 		AARC ME Conv @Ramada
10 Ap		Framingham MA 		FARA @KeefeTech
16 Apr		Gails Ferry CT 		RASON Auction
17 Apr 		Cambridge MA 		Flea at  MIT
29,30 Apr  	Deerfield NH 		NEARfest XIX   @FG
14 May 		E Greenbush NY 		EGARA @FireCo
15 May 		Cambridge MA 		Flea at  MIT
 4 Jun		Hermon ME 		PSARA @8 @HS
19 Jun		Cambridge 		MA Flea at  MIT
17 Jul		Cambridge 		MA Flea at  MIT
13 Aug 		St Albans VT 		STARC @VFW
21 Aug 		Cambridge MA  		Flea at  MIT
26,28 Aug  	Boxboro MA 		FEMARA NE Conv
28 Aug 		Adams MA 		NoBARC @BoweFld
17 Sep		Forestdale RI 		RIAFMRS @VFW
18 Sep 		Cambridge MA 		Flea at  MIT
----------

END of NEWSLETTER

