The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  

The Minuteman
Volume 49, Number 3
January 2020
----------

Membership Meeting Wednesday, 15 January 7:30 PM
Paul Topolski, W1SEX
Heath History, the GI Bill, and Economics of Restoration. 

Talkin: 147.270
Location: Leominster EMA Amphitheater , 37 Carter Street, Leominster, Ma, 01453 (see p.11)

Heath Company was a major player in the electronics industry with hundreds of Heathkit products that educated customers and provided the satisfaction of building and enjoying their own equipment.   Heath started with aircraft and transitioned to electronics with test equipment after World War II.  Heath added HiFi and ham radio gear within a few years. 

Paul Topolski, W1SEX of Gardner, Massachusetts will speak about the interesting and colorful history of Heath Company.  Paul will speak about the company founder and the subsequent owners of Heath and how the Company's rapid growth was bolstered by numerous economic factors that came to fruition at the close of World War II. Paul will outline these intertwined factors which lead to tremendous success and the ultimate failure of the company.  Finally, Paul will show why Heathkits are among the best ham radio products to restore from both a practical and economical basis. 

Paul, an Extra class ham licensed for over twenty-eight years is one of the ARRL Western MA Section Technical Specialists and enjoys bringing the technical side of the hobby to fellow radio amateurs.  Paul's early professional career was in the electronics industry working for the former Simplex Time Recorder Company starting as a field Technical Representative and culminating as a Senior Sales Engineer.  Prior to retirement Paul's second career was in the law enforcement profession serving in both civilian and sworn positions.  

Paul's presentation is packed with facts both Heathkit aficionados and those new to Heathkits will find surprising. 
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH 

Happy New Year!  I hope everyone had happy holidays.

There have been five amateur tower related deaths this year, nine in the last five years versus eight in the previous eleven years.  The frequency of tower incidents is increasing.  To help 
educate HAMS and to combat the increase, MMRA has become a charter member of the Zero Falls Alliance.  I would urge everyone to check the information on Jim Idelson's, K1IR presentation at the November, 2019 meeting cited below.  Also, check out Jim's Ham Nation appearance https://blog.thedrivenelement.com/2019/12/tower-safety-month-on-ham-nation/.  
I am a charter member of the Zero Falls Alliance. I urge all of you to take the pledge to reduce tower accidents by joining the Zero Falls Alliance at http://zerofalls.org.

I spent many hours in my youth building Heathkit kits.  My first kit was an IM-28 VTVM, followed by several other pieces of test equipment.  I am currently restoring a Heathkit HW-9 QRP CW Transceiver, which I built years before I was licensed.  I am looking forward to January's presentation, Heath History, the GI Bill, and Economics of Restoration by Paul Topolski, W1SEX. Note Location, Leominster EMA Amphitheater, 37 Carter Street, Leominster, Ma, 01453.  I hope to see you all there!

MMRA name tags can now be ordered from The Maine Store, see details at the bottom of this page.

The February Business meeting will be teleconference only.  The conference information will be sent to board members early the week of the meeting.  All are welcome, so if you want to attend the teleconference, please send a request by 2/19/20, 12:00 PM to contact@mmra.org.

I would like to thank Eric, KV1J, City of Marlborough Fire Department, and Marlborough Emergency Management Agency for hosting the November membership meeting and the December business meeting.

Please note that membership renewal sent via U.S. Mail may take up to 2 weeks to be processed.

I look forward to meeting you on the air during the TIaOS net every Tuesday at 8:00 PM.
----------

MMRA Name Tags

You can now have your very own MMRA Nametag!

We have arranged with The Maine Store to make these tags available for $15.  To order, go to:
< https://www.themainestore.com/item/NAME-TAG-MINUTEMAN-REPEATER-100558 > 
----------

Ask your friends to become a member 

Just let them know that it is not fully automated.  Although they can log into the MMRA website immediately, they need to be manually processed.  This could take up to  week.
----------

If you haven't updated your MMRA profile in a while, now is the time!  Go to < MMRA.ORG >  and log in to do so.
----------

Repeater Update ~ Bob DeMattia, K1IW

The technical crew has been picking at a few things here and there over the past few months.  First, the link radio on 147.27 has been replaced.  This hopefully will end the drop-outs that were being reported for several weeks.  Bryan, W1BRI, also rebuilt the power conditioning circuit on 147.27 from a previously unstable version to a clean version with a voltage display.  When we switch from AC power to battery, there is a short glitch that would normally reset the 7330 controller.  The large cap in this box prevents this.  Also in this box is the power fail detect circuit which feeds to the logic input on 147.27.

On December 30th, KC1US and I installed the 224.880 repeater at our previously former, and now current site at the Lahey Hospital in Burlington.  This was the former site of 146.715 and 446.775 before they were moved to North Reading.

In not-so-good news, the link antenna at Belmont has failed   We measured the SWR at 5:1.  The link radio itself was also damaged and will need to be replaced.  Once the weather is nice enough, we will go back to the site to install the new antenna and replace the radio.
----------

Winter Field Day Opportunity ~ Bob Phinney, K5TEC

Members of MMRA are invited to Winter Field Day 2020, January 25, any time between 2-10 pm. Join the FUN! Pot Luck Dinner, Ham Radio Event, Maker Activities, Planetarium Shows, Guest Speaker, Games, Movie Night, all in one! Also celebrating the Lunar New Year! 

Spouses and children welcome. Hosted by members of Sci-Tech Amateur Radio Society (STARS), New England Amateur Radio (NEAR), and New England Sci-Tech (NEST), at 16 Tech Circle, Natick.  

Please sign up at: https://www.nescitech.org/winter-field-day/ 
----------
20 November 2019 Membership Meeting
Larry Banks, W1DYJ ~ Clerk pro-tem

Meeting called to order at 7:19
 by Dave, N1DCH, President  
Location: Marlborough Fire Department
 Central Station, 215 MAPLE Street (Rt. 85), 
Emergency Management Room.

18 members present

Business Meeting

Bob, K1IW, presented a short update of the status of the repeaters, and presented two requests for funding:
(1) Purchase one SCOM 7330 repeater controller, Raspberry Pi and accessories to upgrade the Mendon controller and make it internet accessible.

Background:  The Mendon controller is needed to make the MMRA system 100% internet controlled.  All other existing repeaters have already been upgraded.  With the upgrade, control operator functions are easier and less intrusive. It also eases the process of debugging technical problems and performing  controller firmware upgrades.

Moved to appropriate (not to exceed) $700 for above.  Seconded.  There was no discussion.
Voted unanimously.

(2) Purchase one SCOM 7330 repeater controller, Raspberry Pi and accessories, and internet linking equipment to put the 224.880  repeater online at Lahey Hospital in Burlington.

Background: The 224.880 repeater was removed from service when 223.94 was moved from Hopkinton to Marlborough.  It is now in storage.  146.715/446.775 were formerly located at Lahey Hospital in Burlington.  They were moved to North Reading in 2016.  This proposal is to locate 224.88 at the Burlington site (to which we still have access).

Moved to appropriate (not to exceed) $700 for above.  Seconded.  

A short discussion revolved around whether we needed to add another 220 repeater and whether this Burlington site was appropriate.  The consensus was that it made sense as we had the site and most of the equipment, but needed to make the control system compatible with the network.  Voted unanimously.

Marlborough Emergency Management

Eric, KV1J, gave us a short overview of Marlborough’s emergency management setup, from both an organizational and communication viewpoint.  (Editor’s comment:  I thought it was impressive, and felt others in attendance concurred.)

The Main Event -- Amateur Radio Tower Safety: Is It Time for Change? 
Jim Idelson ~ K1IR 

Jim presented the three simple things every ham must do to dramatically reduce the deadly risks of tower work. Recent tragic events drove a full investigation of amateur radio tower fatalities in the US over the past 20 years. The results of the research are disturbing, but they also show us exactly what we need to do to eliminate this problem in our community.  This talk was very well received.

Framework
Every tower death is a problem.  But how big a problem do we really have? 
[Answer: ham death and injury statistics are much worse than commercial tower climbers’ statistics.]

After discussing the facts and obvious solutions, Jim demonstrated some of the proper tower climbing equipment needed for safe climbing.

Finally, Jim introduced his initiative: the
Zero Falls Alliance, a non-profit corporation to promote safety in all ham radio activities.  A number of hams present signed up for this Alliance at the end of the talk.  The MMRA Board of Directors will discuss joining the Alliance as a Club at our next Business Meeting on 18 December.

Here is a link to Jim’s blog and his talk:  https://blog.thedrivenelement.com/ 

Meeting adjourned at ~ 9:35 pm.
Larry Banks, Clerk pro-tem

Note: We usually meet for dinner before our meetings.  Join us!  Shown are John, WA1MDD; Kevin, K1KWP; Larry, W1DYJ (feeding his face); James, N1DDK, Jim, K1IR (our speaker); and Bob, K1IW.
----------

December 2019 Business Meeting Minutes
Larry Banks, W1DYJ ~ Clerk pro-tem

Minutes of the MMRA Business Meeting of 18 December 2019
Location: Marlborough Central Fire Station
 
Meeting called to order at 7:45 EST
Present: Dave, N1DCH; Bob, K1IW; Clark, N1NVK; Kevin, K1KWP; Eric, KV1J; Bruce, KC1US
Via teleconference: John, WA1MDD; Jason, W1HFP; Larry, W1DYJ
 
New Business

Zero Falls Alliance – During Jim, K1IR’s excellent talk to us in November, he solicited the MMRA to join the Alliance.  After a short discussion, Dave (N1DCH) moved to join, Kevin (K1KWP) seconded and the vote was unanimous.  

A subsequent discussion concerning a donation to the Alliance led to the realization that the MMRA does not have a policy on donations.  The board will take up this subject in the future.  
 
NOTE: During this discussion, Larry (W1DYJ) was asked to send Jim an email telling him of our decision.  After the meeting, Larry (W1DYJ) listened to the HAM NATION PodCast where Jim was presenting Part III of his talk.  Jim’s slide of those clubs who have joined included the MMRA!  FAST WORK on Jim’s part, and we should be proud of the group we have joined.

In a subsequent email from Jim, there are future items that will help the Alliance:

Display the Zero Falls "We took the pledge." logo in a prominent place on MMRA website and newsletter
Recruit a volunteer to help us with any of a number of jobs that will help us move forward.
...and more
 
Repeater Update 

Belmont: 		Link antennas has likely failed. 
 
MRW: 		Low link audio on 146.27 and hiss on 223.94

Burlington:  	224.88 configured and was “working” at the meeting.  To be installed at Lahey Clinic in the new year.  Motion (Clark, N1NVK) and seconded (Kevin, K1KWP) to appoint Bruce, KC1US as trustee. Unanimous.

Weston 442.700	Motion (Bob, K1IW) and second (Clark, N1NVK) to appoint Dave, N1DCH as trustee.  Unanimous.

Mendon		Ready to install upgrade, need decent weather.

Meeting Updates

February Business Meeting to be teleconference only 
June Business Meeting to be at the Marlborough Central Fire Station

Newsletter:  

Articles for the January edition need to be sent to Larry by 27 December (the last Friday of the preceding month, as always) 
Algonquin Flea in February to be in the newsletter
Renewals: Jason (W1HFP) to look into sending an email out to all those who have not rejoined.
 
MMRA Callsign Badge  Dave(N1DCH) to look into having an MMRA logo specific call sign badge made available to members.
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:04 EST
Submitted by Larry, W1DYJ, Clerk pro tem
----------

Bears in Belmont! ~ Bruce Pigott, KC1US

No, not the honey beehive raiding type. Most of the MMRA systems are linked in the local area using two hub systems by radios. The 145.430 repeater located in Belmont also has a mode connecting it to the Broadcast Employees Amateur Radio Society and the Disney Amateur Radio Interconnect network. Most of the day it is linked to BEARS/DARI by program control. The linking is done by a dedicated, proprietary Internet Protocol network, not IRLP or EchoLink. It presently connects repeaters in six states. Early mornings it is a stand alone system.

The Belmont web page at  < https://www.mmra.org/repeaters/BEL  > gives the repeater history, system information and a link to the BEARS web page. The < http://w2abc.org/bears-dari-repeater-network  > site has details about the linked systems and the sponsoring organizations. Look carefully on the list of repeaters. Only the ones with asterisks are part of the network. Repeaters in California and Pennsylvania are not presently accessible. If you hear an EchoLink connection, it is hams connecting to the Orlando, Florida system. Many people are not aware it is a linked system. They think their local repeater has great coverage or ducting is happening. Since the repeaters are on different bands or frequencies, it is impossible. When using the system, pause as you would on any linked network before speaking, and say you are in the Boston area.

With a great view of Boston, Belmont is used to support Public Service events. A recent upgrade was done to install an S-COM 7330 controller. This handles connections to the hubs, scheduled actions and MMRA member functions.
----------

MMRA TIaOS Net — Annual Update ~ Larry Banks, W1DYJ, Net Manager

We have seen an increase in our weekly net participation this year.  Do join us!   I would also like to welcome a new Net control.  Jonathan Traum, K1BTZ, has volunteered to be an NC substitute.
----------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:
CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.
LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and internationally.
PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.
FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.
BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.
PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.
Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
----------

Ad for Algonquin Amateur Radio Club Flea Market
Saturday. February 15, Marlborough MA
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.
Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a business meeting—if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.


Wednesday, 15 January ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
Speaker/Topic: Paul Topolski, W1SEX, Heathkit: History and Restoration 
Location: Leominster EMA 

Wednesday, 19 February ~ Business Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
Location: Teleconference

Wednesday, 18 March ~ Membership Meeting   Note: 7:00 PM Start
SKYWARN Training    Rob Macedo, KD1CY
Microsoft Burlington

Wednesday, 15 April ~ Business Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
New England Sci-Tech Inc., Natick + Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 May ~ Annual Meeting & Elections ~ 7:30 PM
Antenna Modeling: TLW, YW, HFTA , and EZNEC     Larry Banks, W1DYJ
Location: Campion Center, Weston

Wednesday, 17 June ~ Business Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
Location: Marlborough Central Fire Station + Teleconference
----------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM

Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1		W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 2		WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 3 		KC1CLA		Ed Curley
Week 4		K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 		KB1OQA		Tom Turner
Substitute	K1BTZ		Jonathan Traum

	To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

MMRA Leaders


Executive Board — Officers
President		Dave Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Vice President		John Spencer	WA1MDD
Secretary		Jason Peardon 	W1HFP
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk 			Charles Miller	KC1JUO

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2020	Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2020	James Lee	N1DDK
Director  »2021	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Director  »2021	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC

Technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Technical Officer Emeritus Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.43	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Boston 146.82		John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Brookline 145.16	Joyce DeMattia	K1IWW
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 224.88	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Lowell 442.25		Vince De La Flor	K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.81	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.39, 147.27, 223.94, 448.225, 449.925

       927.70 — all as W1MRA 	Bill Northup	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.61		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Quincy 146.67		Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Weston 146.79		Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.70		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.70		Dave Hornbaker	N1DCH

Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

                       * Appointed
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:

www.mmra.org è Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions

Check here for the schedule:
 http://www.mmra.org/exam.html
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      617-699-3670 
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

Contacting the MMRA

Members: MMRA@yahoogroups.com  Note: This may take some time. 
You must be approved by the moderator.


Officers: contact@mmra.org


Control Ops: control-ops@mmra.org
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets & Gatherings

For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

18 Jan 	Whitman MA 	WARC @KoC
15 Feb 	Marlboro MA 	AARC @MidSch
 7 Mar 	Chicopee MA 	MtTARA @Castle
29 Mar 	Southigton CT
10,11 Apr Lewiston ME 	AARC  @ Ramada 
26 Apr 	Thompson CT 	ECARC @Racewa
----------
END OF NEWSLETTER