The Minuteman

Volume 52    SPECIAL   August 2023

The Minuteman Repeater Association is a non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.
----------

SPECIAL EDITION!

Northeast HamXposition
August 25, 26, 27

ARRL Convention ~ New England Division
Best Western Royal Plaza Hotel & Trade Center
Marlborough, Massachusetts
https://hamxposition.org/
----------

Come visit us in the Executive Room (down the
aisle across from the exhibit hall) where you can
meet some of our members, join our club, and
enter a chance to win one of our great door prizes.

Membership not required to win, and you don t have to
be present to win.

Raffle tickets are
$2 each, 3 for $5, 7 for $10.
Get 3 if you renew for two years!

Winners drawn Sunday at noon:
First Prize: YAESU VX-6R 144 / 220 / 430 HT
Second Prize: ADA-1 Antenna Disconnect Actuator
Third Prize: Book -  Grounding and Bonding for the Radio Amateur
----------

Find our Fox Box, somewhere on the hotel grounds.

The MMRA Fox Box transmits on 145.63 MHz with a 146.2 Hz PL.
Transmissions repeat ~ 165 seconds.
It will be moved to a 2nd location Saturday afternoon at ~ 5 pm.

If you find the box please leave your call on the notepad in the "mailbox."
All who find the box (including Sunday) will be announced in an upcoming
MMRA newsletter and at www.mmra.org. 
----------

President s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH

Welcome to HamXposition!

Please stop by and say hello. We are located in the Executive Room (E-5, across from the vendor area and next
to the W1A special events station.) While you are there you can renew your membership (memberships expire
this month) and sign up for the raffle.

Fox Box: The MMRA Fox Box will be deployed during the convention. Brush up on your Radio Direction
Finding skills and try to locate the box.

VE Exams: There are three license exam sessions at HamXposition: check: HamXposition - License Exam Sessions
or contact Ron   WO1E at ve@mmra.org or wo1e@mmra.org. Please remember to bring a State ID, your
FRN, and if upgrading an Official copy of your current license.

Membership renewal: All MMRA memberships expire on August 31. Please check your profile and if your
membership has expired or will expire soon, please renew. If you will not be attending HamXposition, renewals
may be done on the website, or you can mail your renewal to Minuteman Repeater Association, PO Box 669,
Stow, MA 01775-0669. Please allow 7 days for us to process your renewal. Please allow 14 days for
renewals that are mailed. While you're on the website (https://www.mmra.org) checking your expiration date,
please verify your email address.

Tuesday Net: Join us Tuesday nights at 8:00 PM for our weekly Technical Information and Other Stuff (TIaOS)
net. There is always a lively discussion on all sorts of HAM issues, including equipment, antennas, software,
repeaters, and other stuff. The main purpose is to test our ability to link up the repeaters in case of an
emergency or to support an event like the Boston Marathon. You can also join via EchoLink if your radio is a
little under the weather. See below for more information.

You can find out more information about how and when the repeaters are linked on the website:
(https://www.mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html).
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER
