The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  
----------

The Minuteman
Volume 48, Number 3
January 2019
----------

Membership Meeting Wednesday, 16 January 7:00 PM
Contest University ~ Tim Duffy, K3LR, via Skype

Tim, who is a very well know contester and the owner of multi-multi contest superstation K3LR, will be discussing the following, followed by a Q&A session:
	* What is a contest?
	* What do you need to get started at contesting?
	* Where can you find resources to help you be a contester.
	* What are the benefits of contesting?
This is aimed at hams who are either new at contesting or want to improve their skills.


New England Sci-Tech Inc.
16 Tech Circle	Natick MA
Talk-in: 147.27  pl 146.2

After Tim’s presentation, the MMRA will have an election to fill the vacant positions of Clerk. 
MMRA Officer Election:
KC1JUO Charles Miller – Clerk 


Note: We will meet at 5 PM for dinner at 110 Grill,  171 Commonwealth Rd, Wayland, MA.  Those who attend will have first chance at a DXEngineering hat.  
RSVP: to Dave: daveho@msn.com so we know how big a table to get.
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker , N1DCH 

Happy New Year to all members of MMRA!

I am David Hornbaker, N1DCH. I am
excited to serve as the newly elected MMRA President. Here's a short biography so that you may know a little about me.

I have been a member of MMRA since December 2017, at which time I passed the Technician and General licenses
exams. I passed the Amateur Extra
license in March 2018. I have been a member of ARRL since January 2018. I began serving as a Volunteer Examiner for ARRL/VEC since May 2018.

My interest in radio began when I was a kid and hung around the shack of my
uncle Myron Hornbaker, W0GFU (SK), Fowler, Kansas. I got my First Class
Radiotelephone License in 1975 (now, General Radiotelephone Operator
License). I was employed by a local telephone company as an installer of IMTS telephones in automobiles. Later, I went to work for Wichita, Kansas television station KAKE-TV as a master control operator.

While attending undergraduate classes at University Colorado Denver, I was 
recruited to join Pr1me Computer, Inc. headquartered in Natick, MA. I was a software engineer for eight years in its Research and Development division, where I worked on compilers and the
Primos Operating System.  Following Pr1me, I was employed by Pacer Software, which sold a portable AppleTalk stack. I ported the stack to OS/2 for
3-Com and Microsoft. Eventually, I was employed by the Microsoft Corporation for 21 years as an Infrastructure Consultant. Today, I own and am President of DCH Consulting Services. I am a graduate of University Massachusetts Lowell, BS Information Technology and currently enrolled in the Masters Degree program.

I look forward to meeting you "on air" (TIOS Net, every Tuesday at 8pm) and in person at our membership
meetings.  Times and places for our membership meetings are published in this newsletter and on our MMRA website www.MMRA.org

See you soon!  N1DCH 
----------

November Membership Meeting Minutes

Charles Miller, KC1JUO, Clerk (acting)

 
Meeting Open @ 19:35
A quorum of 17 members was present.

Dave Hornbaker (N1DCH) was elected as our New President.  [Kevin, K1KWP and Kevin, KC1JYC / first and second]
The position of Secretary is now OPEN.

Charles Miller, KC1JUO, volunteered for and was nominated as the MMRA Clerk.  (Election to be at the next membership meeting in January)
 
New Business:
	*Board Meeting - December 19th @ Marlborough Library - Story Room  19:00 - 20:30
	*January 16th : Membership Meeting [Location TBD]
	*Looking into Remote Meeting access
	*Relocation of Brookline Repeater If needed: Weston: possible location 
	*Bryan, W1BRI, announced that he is stepping down as Technical Director, and that Bob, K1IW, has agreed to be the New Technical Director.  This was referred to the board for approval.
	*Membership ~40% renewals
 
The meeting was adjourned at ~20:15 
 
Following the meeting, Dave, N1DCH, talked about CHIRP.   Bryan, W1BRI, brought the service monitor, power meter, dummy load and assorted RF cables and adapters for HT testing.

Note: Dave has uploaded CHIRP import files to the files section of groups.yahoo.com/mmra

Included is three photos:
	* Dave, N1DCH, discussing CHIRP, with Charles, KC1JOU, taking notes.
	* Bryan, W1BRI, waiting to test HTs with the Service Monitor.
	* Some of the attendees in the back of the room, in rapt attention.
----------

December Business Meeting ~ Minutes
Charles Miller, KC1JUO, Clerk (acting)

Meeting Called to Order @ 19:12
Attendance:
Bob (K1IW) – Director, Technical Officer
Dick (K1KMN)
Kevin (K1KWP) – Treasurer, Trustee
Charles (KC1JUO) – Acting Clerk
Dave (N1DCH) – President, Secretary
Clark (N1NVK) – Director
Bryan (W1BRI) – Trustee
Larry (W1DYJ) – Net Manager, Trustee, Newsletter Editor
John (WA1MDD) – Vice President

Control Operator Training:
	* Suggestion that we hold control operator training. Good for bringing repeaters up & own.  Scheduling possible next year, including technical training.  [Attendance is not mandatory but high encouraged]
	* Trustees need to be control operators of their own repeater and all others

Executive Discussion:
Repeater Use Policy: we don’t have a current written policy covering profanity. Larry, W1DYJ, will write proposed policy for discussion.

Updated System:
Brookline and Marlborough D-Star gateway was replaced by Bob (K1IW): Moved (Dave, N1DCH), Seconded (Kevin, K1KWP) and voted that Bob (K1IW) be reimbursed for Marlborough $75.91 - will forward receipt to Kevin (K1KWP)

Treasure Report: Kevin (K1KWP):
	* Kilowatt Hours on various repeaters discussed / some stations have noticeably lower usage
	* Mendon repeater update discussed - will be discussed further in 2019 if opportunity presents itself
Interesting proposed experiment : Usage/Power - Before and After Repeaters have been linked
	* Member dues reminder / Grace period reminder
	* Suggestion: Expiring Memberships - Give 30-day notice with reminders

Membership Forms:
Modify paper membership form to update with year membership with new members / first time member licensed 
Motion: Honor membership of new members who have taken test with other clubs
Voted: Current Policy extended to persons who present a CSCE during first year of license

Newsletter:
	* Newsletter articles being accepted for January Newsletter
	* Possible presentation topic: Hotspot acts as mini-Repeater / Digital-Hotspots

Membership Meetings:
	* At NESci-Tech: Skype presentation: Contest University with K3LR
	* February Business Meeting: Conference Call
	* March: Talk in Burlington

Brookline repeater site:
Concern over need to replacing system in Brookline: Does not seem to be an issue (Bob, K1IW)

Old Business/Operations:
2018 Annual Report filed 12/28/2018

Meeting Adjourned @ 20:21
----------

What’s Been Happening ~ Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

The President
Earlier this fall the KG1H (David Wolfe) announced that he was going to relocate away from New England and would no longer be able to serve as president of the MMRA. On behalf of the MMRA board and the membership I would like to thank KG1H for his efforts and leadership of the MMRA for the previous several years.

Shortly after Dave’s announcement N1DCH (David Hornbaker) was nominated for President. At the November 28 general membership meeting N1DCH was elected to be the president. On behalf of the MMRA board and the membership I would like to thank N1DCH for stepping up to serve as President.

The Secretary
N1DCH was already serving as the elected Secretary of the MMRA and will continue to do so as the bylaws allow for someone to serve in two offices. However it would be appropriate for another individual who would like to be more involved with the operation of the MMRA to be nominated (or volunteer) for this position. The primary duty of the Secretary is to process membership applications and renewals as well as keeping the MMRA database up to date. Although the newsletter is produced by its editor W1DYJ the newsletter is actually published by the Secretary. If you are willing or interested in this position please make your intent known to one (or all) of the board members.

The Public Service Coordinator
KG1H also served as the “public service coordinator” for the MMRA. This position is intended to be the main contact point for anyone or any organization requesting use of the MMRA repeaters for public service events as well as the coordinator of public service activities within the MMRA. If you are willing or interested in this position please make your intent known to one (or all) of the board members.

The Clerk
At the November 28 general membership meeting KC1JUO (Charles Miller) was nominated for the office of Clerk and has been named the acting clerk. There will be an election vote at the January 16 general membership meeting to confirm KC1JUO as the clerk. On behalf of the MMRA board and the membership I would like to thank KC1JUO for volunteering to serve as clerk.

The Technical Officer
W1BRI (Bryan Cerqua) has served as the Technical Officer (aka. The Technical Director) for many years (actually more than one decade). Although Bryan still intends to be very involved with the technical side of the MMRA repeater system he requested to step down as the official Technical Officer.

On behalf of the MMRA board and the membership I would like to thank W1BRI for all of his many years of service and countless hours working on and keeping the system running, often by himself in a cold unheated radio shelter.

W1BRI recommended K1IW (Bob Demattia) as the new technical officer. I can not think of a better candidate for this position. We should all be aware of the immense amount of effort that Bob has put into the technical side of the MMRA for many years (also more than one decade) as well as all his years of service as a past President (and Secretary and website manager and controller programmer and …..) of the MMRA. In a vote of the board in December K1IW was confirmed as the new technical officer of the MMRA. On behalf of the MMRA board and the membership I would like to thank Bob for all of his countless years of service to the MMRA.

Emeritus Positions
The MMRA systems and the organization in general benefited greatly for immense efforts by both K1IW and W1BRI over many years. The repeater system is much larger, capable, reliable, and flexible as result of their immense efforts over a very long period of time.

In recognition of their large impact over so many years the board voted in December to name K1IW as the honorary President Emeritus and W1BRI as the honorary Technical Officer Emeritus.
----------

Treasurer’s Report ~ Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Recent Donations

In the previous newsletter we listed donations for the last couple years that we really did not sufficiently acknowledge.  To continue that acknowledgment on behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to thank the individuals below for their recent donations (since the list published in the September newsletter).

W1MVP	N1ZYY	N1FLO	AA1VS	KC1IEK	W1RLO

Membership Report/Renewals

The MMRA membership year runs from September 1 until August 31 of each year.   There is a grace period for those who have not renewed from September 1 until January 1.

The chart below shows that there were 35 new members since January 1 2018.  The chart below shows that although 146 people have renewed (or joined) for the current membership year (which started on September 1,2018) potentially 97 existing members have not yet renewed.   33 members have already renewed for the 2019-2020 membership year.   Membership dues are by far the primary income source for the MMRA and your continued membership and dues are needed and appreciated.

[CHART]

New members

On behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to acknowledge the individuals below who joined the MMRA since January 1,2018.

AB1RW	K1CCS	K1NDG	KA1GDQ	KA1MAT	KA1OLA	KB1ENV
KB1HDG	KB1MBG	KC1HHK	KC1HNG	KC1IHN	KC1ITW	KC1ITY
KC1IXJ	KC1IXK	KC1IXL	KC1IXM	KC1JKU	KC1JRN	KC1JRO
KC1JRP	KC1JRR	KC1JXH	KC1JXJ	KC1JXL	KC1JYJ	KC1KAE
KC1KHV	KC1SDL	KC1USA	KF6NVR	KF6NVR	N1UUQ	W1IPI
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings
Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.

Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. 
Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a meeting—if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.

Wednesday, 16 January ~ Membership Meeting
Speaker/Topic: Tim Duffey, K3LR, Contest University (via Skype)
Location: New England Sci-Tech Inc., Natick

Wednesday, 20 February ~ Business Meeting
Location: Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 Mar ~ Membership Meeting 
Speaker: Larry Banks, W1DYJ
Topic: FT8: Not a Prefix, a Very Powerful Mode
Location: Microsoft, Burlington

Wednesday, 17 April ~ Business Meeting
Location: tbd + Teleconference

Wednesday, 15 May ~ Annual Meeting
Speaker/Topic: tbd
Location: Weston

Wednesday, 19 June ~ Business Meeting
Location: tbd + Teleconference
----------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.

Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	W1DYJ	Larry Banks	
Week 2	WA1JIM	Jimmy Devaire	
Week 3 	KC1CLA	Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP	Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	KB1OQA	Tom Turner

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at:
www.mmra.org è Newsletter Archive (on the left)
----------

MMRA VE Sessions

Check here for the schedule: 
http://www.mmra.org/exam.html
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      617-699-3670 
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

MMRA Leaders


Executive Board — Officers
President	David Hornbaker N1DCH 
Vice President	John Spencer	WA1MDD
Secretary	David Hornbaker N1DCH 
Treasurer	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk (acting)	Charles Miller	KC1JUO

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2019	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Director  »2019	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2020	Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2020	James Lee	N1DDK

Technical Officer
Technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus
Bob DeMattia	K1IW

Technical Officer Emeritus
Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.430	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Boston 146.820	John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Hopkinton 223.940	James Cahill	KB1LOY
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Lowell 442.250	Vince De La Flor K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.810,  Quincy 146.670; 
	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.390, 147.270, 224.880,

       448.225, 449.925,  927.700 — all as W1MRA Bill Northup	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.610	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.400	Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Weston 146.790	Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.700	Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.700	David Wolfe	KG1H


Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	open
* VEC Liaison		Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

* Appointed
----------

Calendar of Ham Radio Flea Markets & Gatherings
For more information:  http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

19 Jan	Whitman MA	WARC @KoC
16 Feb	Marlboro MA	AARC  @MidSch
23 Feb	S Burlington VT	RAoNV @HI
 3 Mar	Nashua NH	NEARC/NEVEC
 9 Mar	Chicopee MA	MtTomARA	 @Castle
24 Mar	Southington CT	SARA
29,30 Mar Lewiston ME	AARC ME
 7 Apr	Framingham MA	FARA
28 Apr	Thompson CT	ECARA
3-4 May Deerfield NH	NEARfest XXV
12 May	E Greenbush NY	EGARA FireCo
18 May	Brookline NH	NEARC
 2 Jun	Queens, NY	HOSARC @HOS
25 Aug 	Newtown CT 	CARA @TownHall
28 Sep	Brookline NH	NEARC
11,12 Oct Deerfield NH	NEARfest XXVI
----------

Area radio clubs are invited to join us for Winter Field Day in Natick.  Open to the public

Saturday, January 26, 2019, from 2-10 pm.  
Pot Luck Dinner, Ham Radio Event, Yard Sale, Maker Activities,
Planetarium Shows, Guest Speaker, Movie Night, all in one event!  Hosted by the youth members of
Sci-Tech Amateur Radio Society (STARS) and by New England Amateur Radio (NEAR).

Held at New England Sci-Tech, 16 Tech Circle, Natick, MA. 

See website for a list of the major items in the yard sale.
----------

Directions to New England Sci-Tech Inc.

16 Tech Circle		Natick MA 01760


From the north: take Rt 95 or Rt 27 or Rt 495 south to Route 30 toward Wayland. Once in Wayland, turn South on Oak Street and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle on your left. Follow Tech Circle to the end.

From the south: take Rt 95 or Rt 27 or Rt 495 north to Route 9 toward Natick. At the Wellesley-Natick line, turn North on Oak Street and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle on your right. Follow Tech Circle to the end.

From the east or west: follow either Rt 30 or Rt 9 toward Natick, turn onto Oak Street at a set of traffic lights, and in 1/2 mile look for Tech Circle. Follow Tech Circle to the end.
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER
----------
