
The Minuteman
Volume 51    Number 1    September 2021
The Minuteman Repeater Association is a non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.
----------

We have TWO (2) MMRA meetings this month!!!
----------
Northeast HamXposition

Sunday, 12 Sept., 12:00—13:00    Salon B
Jason Peardon ~ W1HFP
Jason will lead a presentation on the MMRA 
repeater network followed by our annual raffle drawing. 
First Prize: SDRplay RSPdx
Second Prize: Mobilinkd TNC3
Third Prize: Powerwerx Powerpole Kit

Join us for dinner Friday and/or Saturday night!
Friday night is the DX Dinner, Saturday Night is the Grand Banquet. There are Door Prizes!  
Purchase tickets at https://hamxposition.org/
During the convention, visit the MMRA in the Executive Room
----------

Membership Meeting
Wednesday, 15 September 2021    7:30—9:30 pm
Dave Hornbaker  – N1DCH
Shortened 80m End Fed Half Wave Antenna
Location: New England Sci-Tech, Natick
+ Zoom Teleconference

Dave will discuss his Shortened 80-meter End Fed Half Wave Antenna.  He will start with an overview of End Fed Antennas then, move onto the End Fed Half Wave.  Dave will talk about how to feed an End Fed Antenna, counterpoise, and grounding.  He also will discuss the design of his two End Fed Half wave antennas, the differences and performance, as well as design of the transformers and the common mode choke.  He will also delve into the need for a counterpoise and common mode choke.

David's interest in radio began when he was a kid and hung around the shack of his uncle Myron Hornbaker, W0GFU (SK), Fowler, Kansas.  He got his First-Class Radiotelephone License in 1975 (now, General Radiotelephone Operator License). He was employed by a local telephone company as an installer of IMTS telephones in automobiles. Later, he went to work for Wichita, Kansas television station KAKE-TV as a master control operator.

David owns and is president of DCH Consulting Services, an Information Technology company.  He has worked in the computer industry for over 40 years, most recently with the Microsoft Corporation.  David is a graduate of University Massachusetts Lowell. BS, MS, Information Technology.
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH 

Hybrid meetings are here!  MMRA held its first hybrid meeting, a bi-monthly Business Meeting, on August 18th.  We tested the process for hybrid meetings in preparation for the September 15th Membership Meeting. I anticipate that all future membership meetings and most business
meetings will be hybrid.

The slides, from July's special "members only" presentation by Kevin – K1KWP, are available on our website.  You must be a member and be logged into the website.  Click on "My Profile" on the left-hand side of the home page.  The link is directly above your profile information.

There are two MMRA meetings this month. The first meeting will be on Sunday, September 12, 12:00 PM during HamXposition in Salon B.  Jason – W1HFP will be presenting "Introduction to the Minuteman Repeater Association".  There will be a raffle drawing following the presentation.  The second meeting will be Wednesday, September 15th at New England Sci-Tech in Natick, MA.   I will be presenting "A Shortened 80-meter End Fed Half Wave Antenna".

Please visit us in the Executive Room at HamXposition September 10-12 in Marlborough.  Check out HamXposition's web site for more information https://www.hamxposition.org/

MMRA is sponsoring a raffle at HamXposition, see below for the prizes.  Raffle tickets are: $2.00 each, $5.00 for 3, $10.00 for 7.  Tickets are available at the MMRA booth.  If you renew for 2 years, before September 12 at noon, you will receive one free entry.  You do not need to be
present to win.

Membership renewal! All MMRA memberships expire in August.  Please check your profile and if your membership expires this year, please renew.  Renewals may be done at HamXposition, on the website, or you can mail your renewal to Minuteman Repeater Association, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01775-0669.  Please allow 7 days for us to process your renewal. Please allow 14 days for renewals that are mailed.  While you're on the website (https://www.mmra.org) checking your expiration date, please verify your email address. We have had several email bounces 
recently.

Join us Tuesday nights at 8:00 PM for our weekly Technical Information and Other Stuff (TIaOS) net.  There will be a lively discussion on all sorts of HAM issues, including equipment, antennas, software, repeaters, and other stuff.  The main purpose is to test our ability to link up the
repeaters in case of an emergency or, to support some event like a marathon.   You can also join via EchoLink, if your radio is a little under the weather.  See below for more information.

You can find out more information about how and when the repeaters are linked on the website (https://www.mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html).

Please remember to keep your profile up to date, especially if your email changes.  Note that if your callsign changes, send email to contact@mmra.org and we will update your callsign in the database.

73 — Dave – N1DCH
----------
19 May 2021 Annual Membership Meeting Minutes

President N1DCH called the ZOOM meeting to order at 7:30pm local.

The first order of business was election of officers:

One-year term
N1DCH, David Hornbaker, President
WA1MDD, John Spencer, Vice President
K1KWP, Kevin Paetzold, Treasurer
W1HFP, Jason Peardon, Secretary

Directors – Two-year term
K1IW, Bob DeMattia , Director ? 2023
WA1NVC, Roger Coulson, Director ? 2023

There was no candidate for Clerk.

There being no additional candidates, the slate was elected.

The second order of business was to reauthorize the emergency fund
The emergency fund allows the Board to authorize up to $2500 without a membership vote for emergency repair or replacement of existing equipment.  This policy has been in place for three years and must be reauthorized each year.
This was reauthorized.

The “Main Event”: Charles Miller - KC1JUO
Ham Radio and Software Defined Radio
An Overview, Some History, and a Demonstration

Charles has been licensed since 2017 with the call sign KC1JUO. During his many decades of tinkering, he has built and broken much. He is a Gordon Engineering Fellow with a Computer Science degree from Boston University and a Master of Information Systems from Northeastern University. 
His current career focus is on Cyber Systems Engineering, receiving his CISSP certification in 2019.

 Here are some of his slides.   (Then follows nine of Charles's slides.)
----------

16 June 2021 Business Meeting Minutes

President N1DCH called the ZOOM meeting to order at 7:37 pm local.

Present:
N1DCH, Dave: President / Trustee	K1KWP, Kevin: Treasurer / Emergency Coordinator
W1HFP, Jason: Secretary		KC1US, Bruce: Trustee / Public Service Coordinator
K1IW Bob: Director / Technical Director	WA1NVC: Roger, Director
W1DYJ: Larry, Trustee / Net Control / Newsletter Editor

In-person Meetings
* We discussed when we would go back to in-person meetings.  The consensus was that hybrid meetings are here to stay and we need to be good at them, and they should start soon. 
* The August business meeting will be our first hybrid, and will be held at New England Sci-Tech, Natick.  This will be a “dry-run” of our first hybrid meeting.  Dinner before is planned.
* The September membership meeting will be hybrid at New England Sci-Tech, Natick.  Dinner before the meeting is planned.
* Those present felt that we need to have our own equipment and expertise for hybrid meetings as we will be at venues that are not set up with hybrid equipment.

Repeater Status

The major portion of the meeting concerned our repeaters. 

Burlington 224.880: The off-frequency crystal has been replaced, but the receiver is out of alignment and cannot be properly fixed.  The audio is off by about a kilohertz or two.  Bryan, W1BRI has suggested using a Spectra Engineering MX800, and Bob, K1IW suggested we replace this very old system (a VHF Engineering TX-220B transmitter and Kendecom MR-4 receiver) with an MX800.  Bob asked Roger, WA1NVC to describe this rig.  Roger volunteered to modify one from its 217 MHz native mode to 220 MHz FM.  (The MX800 quality is superior to anything else we have seen and less than 1/2 the price of a Bridgecom repeater.)

Bob, K1IW: motion to spend up to $500 to purchase an MX800
Larry, W1DYJ: second
Motion carried

Belmont 145.430: The link radio will (hopefully) be repaired by end-June, and a new link antenna installed.

Mendon 146.610: The link radio is again dead. Bryan, W1BRI will endeavor to check it out soon.

Quincy 147.670: The TX tone is disabled as it gets into the RX, creating chaos.  No easy fix is known.

Overall Network: There has been noise during HHTN nets, cause unknown. TIaOS nets have witnessed a lot of “beeps and bops”, apparently from the N1IMO-N1IMN network in New Hampshire.   Bob, K1IW has changed the link timing; perhaps this will reduce this issue.

Freedom Pop: Ongoing issues with our internet connection are slowly being resolved.

Router Power: Bob, K1IW, has installed remotely switched power cables at BUR, HOP, and MRE.  This allows power recycling of the routers if they go down.  Bryan, W1BRI, will install one at MDM.  Mike, K1UVH, will install one a Quincy.

Controllers: Apparently, 7330 controllers are now in “end-of-life” status.  The remaining ones will be sold and no new ones will be manufactured.  A discussion about how to address this led to many possible scenarios.  No decision was made.

HamXposition Plans (September 10-12, Marlboro)

Prizes: We agreed to fund up to $500 in prizes.  Jason, W1HFP volunteered to investigate.  A “nanoVNA” was suggested as a prize, along with a few other traditional items.

HamXposition Advertisement: 	The MMRA has traditionally purchased one.
Kevin, K1KWP: Moved to purchase the “color centerfold” for $300
Dave, N1DCH:  Seconded
Approved
Larry, W1DYJ: Volunteered to mock up an ad, based on last year’s

Booth & Talk-In: This is a major effort (and a good contribution to HamXposition) that requires much planning.  Clark, N1NVK was our “usual” volunteer but he has moved to AZ.  We need volunteers to make this happen.  We also collect dues and raffle ticket money for the door prizes.

Dave, N1DCH & Jason, W1HFP volunteered to share the official duties, money and otherwise. An email request for volunteers will be sent to the membership.

Signage: We need a new MMRA banner.  Dave, N1DCH will check into Staples for pricing of an 8’ x 2’ banner. Suggested design: our new logo at the ends with the name and URL in the middle.

Updated Brochure? Larry, W1DYJ volunteered to mock up a new tri-fold.

MMRA meeting: Our usual time-slot is noon on Sunday to allow for the maximum number of raffle tickets to be sold.
Dave, N1DCH will submit the meeting request to FEMARA
Jason, W1HFP agreed to be the presenter

July Members-only Special Meeting
Scheduled for 21 July at 7:30 pm local via ZOOM
Kevin, K1KWP will present: topic to be the usage of our repeater system
There will be a special July newsletter detailing the meeting
  Treasurer’s Report

Kevin, K1KWP presented a detailed report of our finances.  A shortened version of this will be in an upcoming newsletter.

Upcoming Meetings
July 21 – Kevin, K1KWP: Using the MMRA Repeater System - Zoom
August 18 – Business Meeting - Hybrid
September 15 – Dave, N1DCH: Shortened 80m End Fed Half Wave Antenna - Hybrid
October 20 – Business Meeting - Hybrid 
November 17 – Jason, W1HFP: topic to be determined – Hybrid

Upcoming Newsletters
There will be a special newsletter in July for Kevin’s [K1KWP] special member only Presentation.  Input to Larry [W1DYJ] by 30 June
Input for the September newsletter, to include both our September membership meeting and HamXposition, is due to Larry [W1DYJ] by 20 August. [This is early!]

The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 pm local.
Submitted by Larry Banks, W1DYJ, Clerk pro-tem
----------

TESLA VS. MARCONI, Who Invented Radio? ~ Don Lacroix AA1FE

Was it Marconi or Tesla who actually invented radio, or was it really an indirect collaboration of many other people during their lifetime, and why has it taken over a century for the confusion and finally some clarification to slowly come forth through the decades? In fact, I am convinced that the truth is still confusing despite the 1943 Supreme Court ruling -- Marconi Wireless Tel. Co. v. United States - 320 U.S. 1 as we shall see later on. There are many good books about Tesla and one I can recommend is called Tesla, Man Out of Time, by Margaret Cheney. It has a 1981 copyright date on it, but was re-released in 1993. If you are fascinated by Tesla and even amazed at Tesla’s unbelievable inventions then this book is for you. Tesla was not only a real success in the electrical fields, but also a terrible failure in many ways. And one of those struggles and failures was his inability to get recognition for inventing and/or his contributions towards the invention of radio during his lifetime. It is a very good book about the man and his inventions, ideas and contributions.  My reading changed my own thoughts about him, to which I now see him as a man way ahead of his time. 

Tesla actually invented the idea of radio in 1892, not too long after Heinrich Hertz demonstrated UHF spark wireless transmissions in Germany in 1885. In 1898, he developed a radio-controlled robotic boat which he demonstrated by driving the boat remotely around the waters of Manhattan from a set of controls at Madison Square Garden. But despite this amazing feat, he tried for years to sell the idea to the Navy without success. Once realizing the importance of radio, Tesla actually built a huge transmitting tower at Wardenclyffe on Long Island in 1900 to develop worldwide radio transmission services. He ran out of money and could not raise the capital to continue. He actually went bankrupt, thus ending his formal radio research and development.

Marconi began experimenting with Hertz’s spark apparatus and developed improvements to extend the transmission range to one mile, then hundreds of miles. He received British patents for his radio inventions. In 1901, he demonstrated the first trans-Atlantic radio transmission. He went on to form a wireless telegraphy business for the British. While all of the first patents were related to spark wireless, the real important patents were for continuous wave (CW) transmission on one frequency. Spark gap transmitters radiated a very broadband signal on no particular frequency. CW signals used the resonance of tuned circuits and antennas.

Marconi’s real contributions are more engineering and commercial than theoretical. He took the basic ideas and inventions of others and improved upon them and made them practical business successes. Tesla was almost the opposite. He created original ideas and proved them mathematically and physically, patenting some and not others. Some of his best ideas like the AC induction motor was a commercial success which brought him fame but not riches. Marconi, of course, was already very rich. The patent battle between Tesla and Marconi went on for years. Marconi died in 1937. Tesla died in 1943 and six months after his death the US Supreme Court ruled that all of Marconi’s radio patents were invalid.  Because of this decision by the US Supreme Court some thought Tesla was rewarded the patents. So, for many years before and since the US Supreme ruling, most thought Marconi was still the only one who invented radio. Few actually know of Tesla’s radio inventions. He is of course well known for his strange experiments with high voltage, lightning, and the claim he had invented not only an electrical “death ray” but a way to transmit electrical power wirelessly.

Like most significant inventions, radio had not just one “father,” but many. British mathematician James Clerk Maxwell first proved the existence of radio waves mathematically in 1864. The German physicist Hertz set out to prove Maxwell’s equations and did so in 1885. After that, lots of others jumped into the fray. Some of them included Briton Oliver Lodge, Indian physicist Jagdish Chandra Bose, and the Russian Alexander Stepanovich Popov. And none of this would have happened unless Edouard Branly invented the coherer, the first real detector of radio waves. This device used metal filings inside a glass tube that served as a kind of crude but sensitive diode detector.

A fuller answer is that although Tesla did do groundbreaking research in early electrical systems, most importantly wired power transmission using alternating current, his contributions to radio technology were minimal, overshadowed by the far more important practical work conducted by other inventors and scientists such as Heinrich Hertz, Oliver Lodge, Guglielmo Marconi, Karl Braun, the latter two shared the Nobel prize for physics in 1909 -- Reginald Fessenden and John Stone. Tesla was a major player in building the first big power-generating plant at Niagara Falls, NY. In any case, he was also a major player in making AC the electrical power of choice. And despite his essential role and success, he never got rich like the Westinghouse’s and Edison’s of his time.

And about that 1943 Supreme Court ruling Marconi Wireless Tel. Co. v. United States - 320 U.S. 1, this case actually did NOT even try to determine "who invented radio". Instead, it just set governmental compensation for the use of patents primarily during World War One, not the original patents covering radio transmission and reception, but ones covering later improvements. One of these improvements was using an adjustable "four-circuit" transformer configuration for radio transmission and reception. And in this matter, the U.S. counterpart to Marconi's original British "four sevens" tuning patent was in fact invalidated. But, instead of awarding priority to Tesla, the court actually upheld a 1935 lower court ruling that Oliver Lodge's and especially John Stone's earlier work and patents had priority. So, to recap, the 1943 decision didn't overturn Marconi's original patents, or his reputation as the first person to develop practical radiotelegraphic communication. It just said that the adoption of adjustable transformers in the transmitting and receiving circuits, which was an improvement of the initial invention, was fully anticipated by patents issued to Oliver Lodge and John Stone. (This decision wasn't unanimous, but the dissents sided not with Tesla, but with Marconi.)

Radio or wireless was strictly a telegraphy medium until the vacuum tube was invented. The first tube diode was invented by John Fleming of England in 1904. In 1906, American Lee de Forest invented the triode vacuum tube that quickly made radio even better because of the amplification and oscillation it could provide. Reginald Fessenden then made the first AM radio broadcast in 1906. By the 1920s, there were hundreds of radio stations in the USA. Edwin Armstrong invented FM in 1933, but lost the patent battle with RCA, and committed suicide shortly thereafter. Then in 1947, Shockley, Bardeen, and Brattain at Bell Labs invented the transistor which Shockley later perfected into the transistor as we know it today. In 1957 and 1958, Jack Kilby (Texas Instruments) and Robert Noyce (Fairchild, later Intel) invented integrated circuits. 

I suspect even with all the information, court rulings etc., it seems that Tesla really never got all the recognition or financial backing for his ideas, experiments and achievements during his lifetime. Marconi, on the other hand, went on to achieve much fame and recognition, was financially secure and is still considered by many as the “father of radio”. As the debate continues from the Tesla and Marconi camps as to who is the “father of radio” we should always remember that even in this case it still took the collaborated efforts of the many great scientific minds during that period of wireless experimentation and credit should be given to all of them and not just one person, itemizing each of their contributions to the final invention of what we call radio. 

Sources: Wikipedia and other reliable/related amateur radio “public domain” sites and fact-checked.
----------

Treasurer’s Report ~ Kevin Paetzold ~ K1KWP
A pie chart of the MMRA's spending for fy'20-21
----------

18 August 2021 Business Meeting — Minutes

Brought to order by President Dave, N1DCH, at 7:35 pm at New England SciTech 
Present: Dave, N1DCH; Larry, W1DYJ; Bob, K1IW; Bruce, KC1US; Roger, WA1NVC; Bob, K5TEC

Via ZOOM: Kevin, K1KWP; Bob, N1BE; Kevin, AE1EI; Lars, N1LKS; Jason, W1HFP; Dan, N1DFL; John, WA1MDD; Don, KC1NJO; Jon, K1BTZ; Mike, K1TWF (guest); Mike, W1USN (guest)

Agenda

HamXposition plans

The MMRA traditionally has held a raffle on Sunday.  Jason, W1HFP, volunteered to choose and purchase the prizes.  This year’s prizes:

SDRplay RSPdx ($239.95)
Mobilinkd TNC3 ($119.95)
Powerwerx PowerpoleBag ($99.95)

The staffing schedule for the MMRA booth needs to be pinned down.  Dave, N1DCH, volunteered to send out an email soliciting participants

The MMRA is responsible for the talk-in frequencies for HamXposition.  We need volunteers to be on-the air.  Dave, N1DCH, volunteered to send out an email soliciting participants

Our MMRA banners have disappeared.  We have both large and small banners for publicizing our participation in HamXposition.   Given our 50th anniversary, we need new banners.  This led to the approval of purchasing new banners:
Moved: Rob Evans, N1BE, to purchase a 4’ x 2’ and 6’ x 3’ mesh banner, not to exceed $150
Seconded:  Bob DeMattia, K1IW
Approved

The MMRA typically has signage in our HamXposition booth to indicate such things as membership fees, raffle ticket prices, and our free membership offer to new hams.  We need new ones.
Moved: Rob Evans, N1BE, to print and laminate a total of 13 of these signs, cost not to exceed $40
Three raffle ticket prices
Five newly lcensed
Five membership prices
Seconded:  Bob DeMatia, K1IW
Approved

The MMRA provides a “Tri-fold” brochure to VE sessions and other events.  We need a new one.
Larry, W1DYJ, designed a new one
The consensus was to print 250 of these for HamXposition use
Moved (Rob E, N1BE) and seconded (Bob D, K1IW) to spend <$200
Approved

Jason, W1HFP, noted that we need a new roll of raffle tickets – the old roll is probably with the banners.  After the meeting and via an email vote, up to $15 was approved.

The business meeting then went into Executive Session to discuss a repeater issue. 

Social Media Coordinator

We have had several instances over the last three years when comments and questions posted or direct messages were not responded to.
Responsibilities 
Monitor and respond to questions direct messages from Facebook & Twitter
Develop a Social Media strategy
Publish meeting videos?
We have had a member express interest in this appointed position.  Dave, N1DCH¸ will discuss the position with this member

Repeater Status

North Reading Link has been fixed.

Belmont link antenna is UP, transmitted signal into '925 is good,
But the radio couldn't hear the HUB.  Testing in Bob’s garage showed it needed a
 -70dBm signal just to open the squelch.   Radio has now been repaired.  Bob needs to make new connector cable for it because the current one is flaky, then the radio will be reinstalled.

RF conversion work on new Burlington 220 machine is complete – Roger transferring repeater to Bob for final work

Internet migration to Tello:
Hopkinton, Mendon, Quincy, North Reading, and Marlborough East has been migrated
Burlington migration will take place when new repeater is installed

MMRA VE Sessions

Bill no longer wants to handle testing
Do we want to sponsor VE sessions?Perhaps we should do this with another club?
Need a new VEC coordinator
Dave, N1DCH, will discuss this with some potential candidates

Repeat of Kevin's special presentation
The presentation needs to be updated
Will probably be scheduled for a special meeting in the sometime future


Newsletter
Deadline: Friday, 20 August
Email W1DYJ@mmra.org

Meeting adjourned at 9:28.
Submitted by Larry Banks, W1DYJ, Clerk pro-tem
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.
Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a business meeting: if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.


Sunday, 12 September ~ Noon
The MMRA Repeater System ~ Jason Peardon, W1HFP
HamXposition, Marlboro MA  

Wednesday, 15 September ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
Shortened 80m End Fed Half Wave Antenna ~ Dave Hornbaker , N1DCH
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 October – Business Meeting  ~ 7:30 PM
ZOOM teleconference

Wednesday, 17 November ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
Space Weather ~ Jason Peardon, W1HFP
Marlborough Central Fire Station, Marlborough + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 15 December – Business Meeting
Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 19 January ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
SKYWARN Training ~ Robert Macedo, KD1CY
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 16 February – Business Meeting ~ 7:30
Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 16 March~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
Grounding and Bonding ~ K3LR 
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 April – Business Meeting ~ 7:30
Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 18 May ~ Annual Membership/Elections Meeting ~ 7:30
TBD
----------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net
The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 2	KB1OQA	Tom Turner	
Week 3 	KC1CLA		Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	K1BTZ		Jonathan Traum

	To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133

NOTE: we need another NC to be available as a substitute.  If you are interested, email W1DYJ@mmra.org
----------

MMRA Leaders
Executive Board — Officers

President		Dave Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Vice President		John Spencer	WA1MDD
Secretary		Jason Peardon 	W1HFP
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk 	OPEN	————

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2023		Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Director  »2023		Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2022		Rob Evans	N1BE
Director  »2022		James Lee	N1DDK

technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Technical Officer Emeritus	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.43	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Boston 146.82		John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Brookline 145.16	Joyce DeMattia	K1IWW
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 224.88	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough 53.81	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.39, 147.27, 223.94, 448.225, 
     449.925, 927.70         Lowell 442.25  all as W1MRA
			Bill Northup  	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.61		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Quincy 146.67		Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Weston 146.79		Rob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.70		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.70		Dave Hornbaker	N1DCH
	
Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* VEC Liaison		OPEN
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
* Social Media Coordinator  Steve Umans	K8ZBE
                       * Appointed
----------

Contacting the MMRA

Members: mmra@groups.io
Note: This may take some time. 
You must be approved by the moderator.
Officers: contact@mmra.org
Control Ops: control-ops@mmra.org

www: http://www.mmra.org/
twitter: @mmraham 
facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mmraham
----------

Ask your friends to become a member 
Just let them know that it is not fully automated.  Although they can log into the MMRA website immediately, 
they need to be manually processed.  This could take up to week.

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at: www.mmra.org > Newsletter Archive (on the left)

If you haven't updated your MMRA profile in a while, now is the time! 
Go to < MMRA.ORG > and log in to do so.
----------

Waltham Wranglers Swap Net
The MMRA Network connects to this swap net every Wednesday at 8:45 pm local and promptly at 9:59 pm switches over to the Heavy Hitters Traffic Net.  

Heavy Hitters Traffic Net
This net is active on our repeaters Sunday through Friday evenings from 10—11 PM.

In both cases, the repeaters that are active are:
2m:  Mendon (61), Boston (82), North Reading (715), Quincy (67) and Marlborough (27) 
220: Quincy (224.40), Marlborough (223.94)
440: Marlborough (449.925), North Reading (446.775), Hopkinton (449.575)
----------

Get connected on the MMRA Repeater System ~ Dave Hornbaker N1DCH

What is the best way to get connected on the MMRA repeater system?  Try announcing yourself!  Just say your call sign followed by "listening".   If you want, you can include the last 3 digits of the repeater frequency. For example, "N1DCH listening" or maybe "N1DCH listening on 925", you may very well get a response.  Try to connect by announcing yourself several times.

Most of the time, Marlborough Hub1 (449.495) is linked to the following repeaters, Boston (146.820), North Reading (446.775), Mendon (146.610), Lowell (442.250), and Hopkinton (449.575).  Remember that when the repeaters are linked, you need to wait two or three seconds after you key up and before you speak. This is especially
important on the TIaOS net on Tuesday when most of the repeaters are linked.

You can also link (and delink) the repeaters yourself.  See the information you received when you became a 
member, or check the User Control Codes once you log into the MMRA web.

Try one of the non-linked repeaters too. There are Hams monitoring them as well. For more information on the repeater network and how it is linked at various times, check out https://mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html.
----------
END OF NEWSLETTER