The Minuteman Repeater Association
A non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.  

The Minuteman
Volume 49, Number 4
March 2020
----------

NOTE: THIS MEETING HAS BEEN CANCELLED BY THE NATIKONAL WEATHER SERVICE

Wednesday, 18 March, 2020 ~ Membership Meeting
Note: 7:00 PM Start
SKYWARN Training    Rob Macedo, KD1CY
Location: Leominster EMA Amphitheater , 37 Carter Street, Leominster, Ma, 01453 (see p.11)


NOTE: this is a public training event.  MMRA members SHOULD preregister to ensure space:
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/skywarn-training-class-mmra-meeting-microsoft-burlington-ma-tickets-98531617721

The National Weather Service (NWS) in Boston/Norton Massachusetts will be sponsoring a severe weather spotter training session, part of its SKYWARN program.

The session is open to the public at no charge. Amateur Radio Operators, which comprise one third of all SKYWARN Spotters in the NWS Boston/Norton coverage area, Emergency managers, police, fire, and other first responders are encouraged to attend. Everyone age 16 and older who stays to complete the training will be able to become trained NWS weather spotters.

The training session includes a two-hour thirty-minute computer-based presentation, which discusses the development of thunderstorms, the criteria for “severe” thunderstorms, as well as the cloud features associated with severe thunderstorms and tornados. Additional information will be presented about winter storms and proper snow measurement and reporting of coastal flooding, river, stream, and urban flooding and rainfall measurements. The session will also present the procedure for reporting weather information to the National Weather Service. Safety procedures for the various forms of summer severe weather (severe thunderstorms, tornadoes and lightning), winter storms, and flooding will also be covered in the training session. Anyone attending should bring a pen or pencil and bringing a notebook is optional.

Rob Macedo (Amateur Radio Call-Sign: KD1CY) was born and raised in Saratoga Springs, NY and moved to New Bedford, MA for college in 1991, where he went to UMASS-Dartmouth and graduated with an Electrical Engineering degree. He works at Dell Technologies where he has been for over 24 years. Rob is a senior principle hardware engineer and former Director of System Integration in the Drive Storage Media Engineering (DSME) department where he previously managed a global team of engineers working on disk drive and Solid State Drive evaluation in Dell-EMC products and now is a technical lead in this area working with the same global team of system integration engineers. Rob has always had a very strong interest in technology, meteorology, emergency management, emergency and public service event communications. Rob has been the Amateur Radio Emergency Services (ARES) SKYWARN Coordinator for NWS Boston/Norton (previously Taunton) for 23 years and is the Eastern Massachusetts ARES Section Emergency Coordinator. When he is not at work or doing Amateur Radio public service, emergency communications and weather spotting volunteer work, Rob enjoys movies, shows, time with family and friends, as well as sporting events.

Directions to Leominster EMA Amphitheater , 37 Carter Street, Leominster, Ma, 01453 
For more information, see < http://www.leominsteroem.org/map-directions.htm  >

From the East:  Take Route 2 West into Leominster (Johnny Appleseed Rest Area is on the right). Take exit 33 "I-190 Leominster Worcester" and stay to the left of the ramp and look for the sign "Mechanic Street Leominster". Then follow directions below...
From the South: Take I-190 West into Leominster and take exit 8B "Route 2 Boston". Approximately 50 yards down the ramp take the left exit marked "Mechanic Street Leominster" which turns into Mechanic Street at the bottom of the ramp. Then follow directions below...
From the West: Take Route 2 East to Leominster, bear right onto Exit 33 Route I-190 "Leominster / Worcester". Take exit 8 "Mechanic Street Leominster" to the bottom of the ramp. At the bottom of the ramp take a left onto Nashua Street and at the traffic light take a right onto Mechanic Street. Then follow directions below...
...Follow Mechanic Street for approximately 1/2 mile and take a left onto Fifth Street.  Follow Fifth Street until you come to the first intersection and take a right onto Carter Street. The beige building on the corner of Fifth Street and Carter Street is the Emergency Management building, the main entrance is the glass door on Carter Street.

----------

Annual Elections are in May
We have two openings: Director and Clerk
You can read the responsibilities in our bylaws:
https://www.mmra.org/mmra_bylaws_approved_11_30_2012.pdf 
...or MMRA.ORG >> About MMRA >> Bylaws
Please read them if you are interested, and let Dave, N1DCH, know of your interest.
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH 

The MMRA VE team administered 17 exams at the Algonquin Amateur Radio Club (AARC) Flea Market in Marlborough.  There were 14 new licenses or upgrades.   Congratulations to Jason, W1HFP (MMRA secretary) who passed element 4 and became an Extra.  One person, Marc Beneck, AC1IZ, passed all three licenses elements and went from zero to Extra, congratulations to Marc.

If you are interested in attending the SKYWARN training at this month's membership meeting, please remember to pre-register.

Thanks to Bob, K1IW, Bob, N1BE,and Bruce, KC1US for setting up and running the MMRA table at the AARC Flea Market.  Also, thanks to Bob, N1BE for donating additional stuff to sell.  The table generated $238 in sales.

Also, special thanks Bob, K1IW and Bryan, W1BRI for their continued work to keep the repeaters in top shape.

I look forward to seeing you at the Membership meeting on the 18th!
Please join us Tuesday nights on the TIoS net.
73
DE N1DCH
----------

Treasurer’s Report ~ Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Recent Donations

In newsletters we have been listing donations. To continue that acknowledgment on behalf of the MMRA board and the MMRA membership we would like to thank the individuals below for their recent donations (since the newsletter that came out in November 2019.):

K5TEC 	K1CPD 	KG1H 	KD1CY 	KW1U 	K1VK 	AB1II	N1BE

Membership Report/Renewals

The MMRA membership year runs from September 1 until August 31 of each year. There is a grace period for those who have not renewed from September 1 until January 1. Unless you renewed for 2019-2020 (or later) your membership expired on August 31,2019 and the grace period ended on 1/1/2020.

As of this writing 218 members have renewed or joined for 2019-2020. This is an increase of 28 from the 190 people renewed or joined in the previous year. 59 members have already renewed for the 2020-2021 year.
----------

147.27 Slygo Power Repaired ~ Bryan Cerqua, W1BRI

The power supply for our 147.27 repeater at the Slygo site has been acting up and giving false positive alarms for quite some time.  Bryan, our Technical Officer Emeritus (apparently he really hasn’t retired) fixed it. 

From Bryan:    Installed the power interrupter box today at Slygo for the 147.27 repeater and made some measurements.  The battery seems to be holding up OK in TX mode.

Additions are a small box with green LED panel meter that shows power state and has a big cap and diode to keep the 7330 controller from re-booting upon loss of AC power, ie hold up circuits.  Also re-built the box that has the AC mains cut out relay and it also has a green AC power OK light.  --  Done for now / Bryan
----------

15 February VEC results ~ Dave Hornbaker , N1DCH

We had one candidate this morning that passed all three elements and gained extra in one day.  Marc Beneck was also the first person today to pass both Technician & General, which means he won a new radio from the Algonquin ARC.

Also, congratulations to Jason, W1HFP (our Secretary) who passed element 4 today! (The Extra License)

Photo, Left to Right:
Henry Piel KQ1V (Donated Radio)
Mike Powell W1KU (AARC President)
Marc Beneck (Winner, License Sweep from 0 to Extra in 1 sitting).
Dave Hornbaker N1DCH							
Bill Wade K1IJ - (ARRL VEC Liaison)		
Photo credit  Joe Reynolds KA1GDQ
----------

20 January 2020 Membership Meeting
Larry Banks, W1DYJ ~ Clerk pro-tem

Our last membership meeting was held at the Leominster EMA Amphitheater, 37 Carter Street, Leominster, Ma.  The topic: Heath History, the GI Bill, and Economics of Restoration with Paul Topolski, W1SEX. Here are a few of Paul’s 55 slide’s.  I can send you the full slide deck if requested.
----------

19 February 2019 Business Meeting Minutes
Larry Banks, W1DYJ ~ Clerk pro-tem

By Teleconference:  In attendance: Dave, N1DCH; Kevin, K1KWP; Jason,W1HFP; James, N1DDK; John, WA1MDD; Bob, N1BE, Bruce, KC1US; Bob, K1IW, Larry, W1DYJ.   Called to order at 7:30

Agenda

Mt. Wachusett repeater
---
The Mt Wachusett 70 cm repeater, W3DEC, has been linked to our TIaOS net in the past but appears to be broken.  There have been suggestions that the MMRA look into adding this to our stable.   John, KF1KI, volunteered to look into this.  Here is the information he gathered:
Both W3DEC and W1SEX were not employees, but were affiliated with FEMA, and together they designed and built the repeater.  Around 18 months ago, the antenna and/or feed line was damaged.
W1SEX has built enthusiasm for its repair in two hams who work for FEMA at their Region 1 headquarters in Maynard.  FEMA is VERY supportive of having that repeater operational.  FEMA is also eager to restore the link to the MMRA system, so we can count on adding it back once repairs are completed. 
The repeater should be restored to service next summer.  Since repair is not an emergency, access to the tower and repeater building is delayed by the snow and by federal restrictions on access, because the building is shared with several federal agencies. 
FEMA has purchased a Quantar controller for the repeater.  FEMA, or the federal agency which owns the shelter, insists that only a federally contracted tower climber can install a new antenna and feed line.  Coordinating that work will be the biggest task. 
The repeater will probably be operated by the Mohawk Amateur Radio Club with W1SEX as trustee and owned by MARC or by FEMA.
In April, when the snow clears (I can see the peak from here) I will start gently prodding the players for information and to remind them of our interest in reestablishing the link.
It therefore appears that this is under control and will be available at some time in the future.

Repeater update

Completed:
---
Reduced internet expenses to one Tello paid connection ($5/month).  The other four connections have been changed to Freedompop “Free” Service (Bob)
‘27  link radio replaced (Bob, Bryan)
The 30 year-old HUB2 receiver was replaced with a 15 year-old receiver (Bob)
MRW Power Detect rebuilt to prevent false positives (Bryan)

Coming next:
---
MDN – Upgrade ready to implement will do late March/early April (Bob/Bryan)
BBY (Pru) – Need to replace tone encoder (again) – need to arrange with K1BOS or Dave@WCVB  (Bob/John)  [From Bob, K1IW, 25 February: The tone encoder on 146.82 has been repaired.  Tone is 146.2 in and out for maximum coverage using the Brookline receiver.  When in downtown Boston, the local Pru receiver can be accessed with 127.3 (but the output tone will still be 146.2).  Thanks to K1BOS for helping out.
BEL – Link radio & antenna broken.  Replacements are ready: will do mid-March.  Not sure if receiver is working right. (Bob/Bruce) [Discussion – should be moved to another site someday]
BUR – needed new receiver crystal – Bruce to install soon (Bruce)
WES – cleanup (pending board vote – Bob + 2-3 others) Moved, Seconded, & approved.

Purchase a Yaesu DR1X used to be a backup repeater
---
Yeasu is running another special on System Fusion repeaters: a DR2K for $700.  Should we purchase one as a backup?  This generated discussion regarding DMR, what Fusion repeater made sense, etc.  Given the cost, a membership vote at the May meeting would be required.  Further discussion is warranted.

HOWEVER – this generated a discussion about DMR: should we add a DMR repeater?  What group (DMR-MARC or Brandmeister) should it be on?  What repeater should be DMR?   Should the Fusion repeaters be improved before adding DMR?  Much discussion is needed before taking any action.

Echolink audio (W1BRI mentioned poor audio)
---
With only one report of this, and most reports indicating the audio was fine, this was tabled for now.

Database issues
---
Kevin, Jason, and Dave report that there still appear to be issues with membership accuracy.  Bob requested a data record of such inaccuracy so he could track it down.

Planning for HamXposition 2020
---
The move to Marlboro and a new hotel generates some ambiguity for  MMRA’s needs.  A request for a room (as we have had in the past) was made verbally to Bob, K1IW.  Bob will be following up. We may be in the same (larger) room as W1A, which could be an advantage for both W1A and  the MMRA.
 It is hoped that the talk-in transmit/receive situation will be better than from Boxboro as the location is closer to 147.27, but it was pointed out it was in a hole.  Testing is probably required.

Annual Raffle: Moved, seconded, and approved  to allocate up to $500 for three items to be determined.
Dave will request the usual Sunday timeslot for our meeting and raffle. (Done after meeting.)

Weston Junk removal
---
Bob has arranged for an electronics recycler to pick up the items at Weston.  Bob is looking for volunteers to be at Weston at 9 AM on 4 March for two hours.

Elections
---
Two positions will need to be filled.  Clark, (director) has indicated he will not be up for reelection.  Our Clerk position is empty.  [Note: Kevin will send to the State our Annual Report, which is now late.] All other positions are covered.  Larry will add this to the newsletter with a brief statement of requirements from the bylaws. 

Future Meetings
---
March – SKYWARN Training Note: 7:00 PM start	Microsoft Burlington
April – Business Meeting			New England Sci-Tech, Natick
May – W1DYJ Antenna Modeling			Campion Center, Weston.
June – Business Meeting				Marlborough Central Fire Station
July – HamXPosition
September – W1SEX Oscilloscope presentation	Leominster EMA
November – Jeremy - KB1REQ - Mobile (motor vehicle) radio installations
						New England Sci-Tech

Treasurers Report
---
Kevin gave his usual excellent update to our finances.  We remain in good financial health.  A more detailed report will be in the May newsletter.

Other Business
---
The attendees congratulated Jason, W1HFP, for obtaining his Amateur Extra license.

Newsletter
---
Please get newsletter content to Larry by 28 February
Meeting adjourned at ~8:45 pm.
Submitted by Larry Banks, Clerk pro-tem
----------

Mike Raisbeck, K1TWF, Elected to ARRL First Vice President
This information provided by the ARRL

Many of you may know or know of Mike Reisbeck, K1TWF.  He is a mover and shaker in the NEARFEST  Hamvention and the Northeast HamXposition conventions.  The ARRL Board of Directors elected Mike as First Vice President during its January 17-18, 2020 meeting in Connecticut.

Mike was first licensed in 1961 as KN1TWF, becoming K1TWF in 1962, and has held that call ever since. On the air activities include DXing, contesting, and recently, caring for a DMR repeater in his attic. He is a Volunteer Examiner and a Volunteer Counsel.    

Also of interest to Mike are the social and organizational aspects of the Amateur Radio. For over 20 years he has been serving on the Board for the ARRL New England Division Convention, and he is currently president of that organization, which runs an annual convention and funds a number of scholarships to young hams every year. His new post leaves the office of New England Vice Director–a position in which he previously served–vacant for the present.
----------

Distracted Driving Law ~ Update

From the Eastern Mass ARRL Section News:
---
The best way to avoid being ticketed for your lawful use of amateur radio while mobile is to have the appropriate documentation in the vehicle with you.  The first item to print out and have with you in the car is the actual text of the Massachusetts General Law on the subject.  That would be MGL Part 1, Title XIV, Chapter 90, Section 13.  The second item is your valid FCC amateur radio license.


More detail and a link to the law:
<https://ema.arrl.org/important-information-on-new-massachusetts-distracted-driving-law/>
----------

Weston Cleanout

Bob, K1IW, arranged for an Electronics Recycler to take away much of the “junque” from our Weston repeater site.  Thanks to Bob, and to Bryan, W1BRI, Bob, N1BE, and Bob, K5TEK for doing the hard work!
----------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.
Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a business meeting—if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.

Wednesday, 18 March ~ Membership Meeting   Note: 7:00 PM Start
SKYWARN Training    Rob Macedo, KD1CY
Location: Leominster EMA 

Wednesday, 15 April ~ Business Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
New England Sci-Tech Inc., Natick + Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 May ~ Annual Meeting & Elections ~ 7:30 PM
Antenna Modeling: TLW, YW, HFTA , and EZNEC     Larry Banks, W1DYJ
Location: Campion Center, Weston

Wednesday, 17 June ~ Business Meeting ~ 7:30 PM
Location: Marlborough Central Fire Station + Teleconference
----------

Don’t Forget! 
Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  
Net Control Operators:
Week 1	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 2	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 3 	KC1CLA		Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	KB1OQA		Tom Turner
Sub	K1BTZ		Jonathan Traum

To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133
----------

MMRA Leaders
Executive Board — Officers
President		Dave Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Vice President		John Spencer	WA1MDD
Secretary		Jason Peardon 	W1HFP
Treasurer		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk 			Charles Miller	KC1JUO

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2020		Clark Conti	N1NVK
Director  »2020		James Lee	N1DDK
Director  »2021			Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Director  »2021	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Technical Officer
Technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Technical Officer Emeritus Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.43	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Boston 146.82	John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Brookline 145.16	Joyce DeMattia	K1IWW
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 224.88	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Lowell 442.25	Vince De La Flor	K1LVF
* Marlborough 53.81	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.39, 147.27, 223.94, 448.225, 
     449.925, 927.70 : all as W1MRA—Bill Northup  N1QPR
* Mendon 146.61	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.40	Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Quincy 146.67	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Weston 146.79	Bob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.70	Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.70	Dave Hornbaker	N1DCH

Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* VEC Liaison	Bill Wade	K1IJ
* Net Manager	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW


* Appointed
----------

Contacting the MMRA

Members: MMRA@yahoogroups.com
Note: This may take some time. 
You must be approved by the moderator.


Officers: contact@mmra.org

Control Ops: control-ops@mmra.org

Web:		http://www.mmra.org/
Twitter:	@mmraham 
Facebook:	https://www.facebook.com/mmraham


Ask your friends to become a member 
Just let them know that it is not fully automated.  Although they can log into the MMRA website immediately, they need to be manually processed.  This could take up to week.

If you haven't updated your MMRA profile in a while, now is the time! 

Go to < MMRA.ORG >  and log in to do so.

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter
are available at:

www.mmra.org > Newsletter Archive (on the left)

MMRA VE Sessions
Check here for the schedule:

http://www.mmra.org/exam.html
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ      617-699-3670 
Evenings 6 - 10 PM           Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.

Accredited by the ARRL VEC
----------

END OF NEWSLETTER


