                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             
The Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman

Volume 38, Number 4
March 2009
-------------------

Membership Meeting ~ Thursday, 5 March 2009 @ 7:30 PM
Joint meeting with the Framingham Amateur Radio Association (FARA).

Miles Mann, WF1F, will tell us about Slow Scan Television
on the International Space Station
Talk in — 147.27

At the Framingham Police Station: 1 William Welch Way (corner of William Welch Way and Union Ave) in the first floor training room. Enter through the front door on Union Ave. and the room is to the left.   Directions at http://www.mmra.org/dir/fpd.html 
--------------------

US Mail Newsletter to cost $10/year starting now for all new members, and for all renewing members in
 September 2009
--------------------

About the Minuteman Repeater Association

The Minuteman Repeater Association (MMRA) is dedicated to Amateur Radio and public service.  The MMRA maintains a large system of repeaters in Eastern
Massachusetts.
The MMRA meets (usually) on the 3rd Wednesday of September, November, January, March, and May.  Meeting time, locations and talk-in frequency vary.  These are announced in the newsletter and on weekly nets.  Meetings are open to all interested parties.
The Minuteman newsletter is mailed one week before each meeting.  Members are encouraged to submit articles.  Articles may be sent to the editor via email to newsletter@mmra.org.  The deadline for articles is the last Friday of the month preceding the meeting.
Each Tuesday evening at 8PM the MMRA links most of the repeaters for an open net.  The topic is “Technical Information and Other Stuff”.   Join us!
Membership in the MMRA is open to all radio amateurs.  Annual dues are $25 per individual or $35 per family.  See our website for details.
Email to the club leadership should be sent to contact@mmra.org. The MMRA maintains a web site at:  http://www.mmra.org/
An email distribution list for club members named “MMRA” is at: www.yahoogroups.com/
No part of this newsletter can be copied or posted elsewhere without prior approval from the club. Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.
---------------------

MMRA QRM Policy

MMRA members and all other operators are strongly encouraged to report repeater
activity that does not abide by Part 97 rules or accepted amateur radio practice to the board of directors at contact@mmra.org or via other means.

The most effective (and probably the only effective) way to deal with an individual causing QRM is to NOT engage that individual on the air.  Please include the time and date of any incident.  Measures are
being taken to make audio recordings of
repeater activity.
----------------------

MMRA January Membership Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

We met in the meeting room of the Westborough library. This was well attended with about 31 people present.  President K1IW, Bob, opened the meeting with a brief status report on a few repeaters:

The Slygo Hill water tower work is delayed but still planned.  The 147.27 antenna has high SWR and TDR indicates a possible short at the far end of the cable.  Since this repeater is working fairly well with reduced power, MMRA is not paying for an insured tower climber to perform the repair.  We believe site renovations by Marlborough will include moving all antennas, so we expect to be able to do any necessary repairs as part of that activity.  Action by the MMRA is delayed until Marlborough's plans are better defined, particularly the timeframe for site work.

In Brookline 146.82 has very poor receive sensitivity.  The board has not determined the cause or best solution but expect a better duplexer or circulator would resolve this problem.  In the following motion, funding sufficient for one of these was approved by the membership:  K1IW moved that up to $1500.00 be spent to improve reception by the 146.82 repeater, pending technical data received and MMRA board approval based on review of that data.  KK1X seconded this motion and it passed unanimously.

Bryan, W1BRI, mentioned that Quincy is starting to consider renovations to the water tower that houses WUMB and two MMRA repeaters.  It is early in the process so we know little about schedule and ultimate impact to MMRA.

John Frye, N1OTY, gave a three part talk on getting on the 902MHz FM ham band as the main event of this meeting.  Because one cannot simply go to HRO and buy a 902MHz FM radio, the introductory section covered commercial radios that work on 902MHz.  John gave us information to distinguish radios that convert easily to 902 MHz, mostly Motorola and some Kenwoods.  These radios were designed for Public Safety or Business usage.

Converting these radios to Amateur frequencies requires moving both transmit and receive frequencies, and reduces the split.  (The nesmc.org 902 bandplan shows 12MHz and 25MHz splits.)  These conversions can be easy, just reprogramming the radio. Sometimes a circuit modification is necessary. Sometimes both.

The remaining sections focused on two Motorola families: GTX and MCS2000/MTS2000, with details about models / features, typical costs, conversion details, programming cables and software.

 With the possibility of picking up a radio for less than $100 and the easy conversion, there is much interest in getting on 902 MHz FM.  For more details, you can view N1OTY's slides.  These have been posted to the MMRA web site.

John’s slides from the meeting are available on the MMRA website, at http://www.mmra.org/902.
----------------------

Monthly Eastern Massachusetts Section News Summary
ARRL Section Manager: Michael P. Neilsen, W1MPN

Hello all stations and most cordial greetings.  The following are my monthly comments, reflecting a summary view of the important events of the past month, and some "heads-up" notice for events in the current month.

Last month, your section staff had its first meeting at a local Boston restaurant.  We spent the meeting becoming better acquainted and discussing implementing my campaign agenda.  There are no minutes to this meeting since you are already familiar with the plans, but minutes of future meetings will be posted on our section website at http://ema.arrl.org.  Please also be advised that our SEC, STM, and SGL, have sites of their own reachable by links in the bottom left column on our site.

Speaking of which, I'd like to remind you about our website which summarizes happenings around the section and in our clubs, and is updated frequently.  It also shows upcoming events for your scheduling convenience.  We also list speakers and testing venues.  Feel free to contact our ACC, WA1QYM, concerning coordinating support for speakers for your future meeting.  If you would like additional publicity about your club activities, please contact our webmaster, Phil, K9HI, through the site.  I, or anyone on my staff, would be pleased to visit (and present) at your club, just ask!

Two potentially contentious issues arose last month; amateur radio support for the change to "on-air" digital television, and the proposed bills in our legislature concerning, if I may coin an expression, "driving while communicating".  With respect to the digital TV conversion, the ARRL issued a policy statement (on our website) stating categorically that hams are at the same time not obligated to do installations, nor can accept funds if they do as representatives of the ARRL.  I do recommend, however, neighborly interaction where your communication expertise can go a long way to clear up misinformation about this matter.

The proposed legislation is a more serious problem.  Our representatives understandably want to do something about the growing problem of traffic accidents blamed on drivers distracted by cell phone and text communications.  SGL, K3HI, is doing a terrific job monitoring this and his comments about it can be found through a link on our website.  We'd like to know your thoughts as well.  Simply register on our website so your response or blog can be published.

May I take this moment to remind you of important future events.  The Marathon is one of the largest public service events and they are looking for ham support.  It not too late to register at http://marc.mmra.org/marc/index.html.  For information on other events, see our website and/or contact Bruce, KC1US, by email at kc1us@mmra.org.

Field Day (last weekend in June) will be here before you know it!  We have a separate website for that as well, edited by well known ham, Bill, N1VUX, providing a wealth of information to help you with your planning.  Watch for announcements for when the site opens up again for business.

Finally, support may be needed for 2009 Boston Op-Sail event in July.  We will keep you posted.

Last month I announced a new tradition for our website called "In their own words".  In the piece, one ham will be prominently featured to give us a chance to learn all about him/her, and also enlighten us to other interesting aspects of their lives and personalities.  I am honored to announce that Phil, K9HI, will be our first featured ham.  His piece will appear on our section website sometime later this month.

73, de W1MPN
-----------------------

MMRA February Board of Directors Meeting
Bob Evans — N1BE — Clerk

The MMRA Board met at 7:00 PM on Feb 11, 2009 at Chin's restaurant in Marlborough.  K1IW, K1KWP, N1BDA, N1BE, WA1NVC and W1MPN were in attendance.  The following items were discussed.

Marlborough flea market (Feb 14th):  WA1NVC and possibly K1IW will man an MMRA table at the Flea.  Bob and Roger plan to meet at Weston on Friday afternoon to select items for sale.  The board agreed we should sell short lengths of hardline ( < 100 ft.).

Repeaters issues:
Measurements at Brookline showed off-frequency noise from the transmitter (on the Rx input frequency) is getting into the receiver and causing loss of sensitivity.  Reconfiguring the duplexer to notch out the Rx frequency from the transmitter output made the situation somewhat better.  There still is a problem in the antenna system that is not fully diagnosed.  The plan is to replace the LMR feedline with hardline and test substituting a different antenna.
10-Meter TX site:  We discussed alternative antennas for Weston.  We have not yet obtained permission to erect another antenna there.
6-Meter TX and MRE:  The 53.81 MHz PA needs repair.  There also was a proposal to use a gain antenna to replace the current "well aged" one. We also need to trim back vegetation from the antennas at MRE.  It would be better to do this before it sprouts leaves in April.  Permission from the country club already has been obtained.

Bylaw changes:  The board is considering bylaw changes to add provisions for removal of officer, suspension of membership privileges, and rejection of membership applications.  These proposals would need to be approved at a vote of the general membership before becoming effective.  Stay tuned to the Minuteman Newsletter for more details.

Interference Committee:  The board discussed revitalizing the MMRA Interference Committee.  Although no specific proposal was suggested, we'll need someone to lead this committee as a first step.

Boston Marathon:  K1IW and W3EVE are busy making preparations for this event.  About 140 ham volunteers have already offered to assist at this major public service event, but we need about 100 more. Please volunteer!

Walk For Hunger:  KA1NCF is helping to organize this event, starting with a list of volunteers from previous years.

Treasurer's Report:  K1KWP reports both the number of memberships renewed and the amount of dues collected is ahead of last year.  We discussed a few active repeater users who have not renewed their prior memberships.

The meeting adjourned at 8:45 PM.
------------------------

From the ARRL Web Site:    ARDF Update ~ Bearings in Beantown
USA's 9th ARDF Championships
By Joe Moell, K0OV, ARRL Amateur Radio Direction Finding Coordinator

Every year since 2001, hams and future hams have gathered to see who is best at finding hidden radio transmitters in the forest. Besides ARDF, the sport has other names such as foxhunting, foxtailing and radio-orienteering.

This year, for the first time, our national championships will take place in the Northeast. Foxhunting fans of all skill levels will gather near Boston June 5-7 for two days of intense competition. Saturday's competition is on 2 meters, while Sunday's is on 80 meters. Early arrivals can have a day of practice and equipment testing on Friday.

For the full story go to: http://www.arrl.org/news/features/2009/02/10/10639/
-------------------------

The Amateur's Code

The Radio Amateur is:

CONSIDERATE...never knowingly operates in such a way as to lessen the pleasure of others.

LOYAL...offers loyalty, encouragement and support to other amateurs, local clubs, and the American Radio Relay League, through which Amateur Radio in the United States is represented nationally and  internationally.

PROGRESSIVE...with knowledge abreast of science, a well-built and efficient station and operation above reproach.

FRIENDLY...slow and patient operating when requested; friendly advice and counsel to the beginner; kindly assistance, cooperation and consideration for the interests of others. These are the hallmarks of the amateur spirit.

BALANCED...radio is an avocation, never interfering with duties owed to family, job, school or community.

PATRIOTIC...station and skill always ready for service to country and community.

Paul M. Segal, W9EEA, 1928
--------------------------

February Treasurer’s Report
Kevin Paetzold, K1KWP

Income	   Dues			$5189
	   Donations	          919
	   Misc.	          113
	   Total		$6241

Number of members this year = 181
Number not renewed from last year = 26
	
Expenses  Spent to date		$4317
	   Expected expenses      428 
	   Total		$4745

Discretionary Funds 		$1496
--------------------------

President’s Message
Bob DeMattia, K1IW

Just a few days ago (from when I am writing this article) our federal government passed a $787B spending bill.  It always amazes me how government can unlink spending from revenues.  Where this money is going to come from is enough material for a whole other article.  For now, I thought it amusing to list a few things that $787B could buy:

$1.2M to every licensed amateur radio operator in the country (as of 2/15/09)
At $2/gal, all the gas and diesel used in vehicles in the U.S. for two years.
At current spending levels, enough money to run the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for thirty years
Fifty two more Big Dig construction projects
Red Sox season tickets for every man, woman, and child who lives in Massachusetts, including money for each of them to park a car and buy refreshments at the park - for eleven years (though it would be difficult to fit 7,000,000 people into Fenway at one time!)

If anyone receives a check for $1.2M, let me know.  We're always looking for donations.
-------------------------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings

Mar 5  	FARA 			SSTV on ISS, Greg, WF1F
Apr 15	Watham-Weston Corp	Board Meeting
May 20	Clay Center		Ron Dankowitz—Latest in Space Science and General Elections
-------------------------
MMRA Leaders

President			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
Vice President			Steve Telsey		N1BDA
Secretary			Dan Rajczyk		N1KJN
Treasurer			Kevin Paetzold		K1KWP
Clerk				Bob Evans		N1BE
Technical Officer		Bryan Cerqua		W1BRI
Director 2008-10		Clark Conti		N1NVK
Director 2008-10		Mike Neilsen		W1MPN
Director 2007-09		Steve Schwarm		W3EVE
Director 2007-09		Roger Coulson		WA1NVC
Emergency Coordinator		open
Net Manager			Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Newsletter Editor		Larry Banks		W1DYJ
Public Service Coordinator	Bruce Pigott		KC1US
VEC Liaison			Bill Wade		K1IJ
Web Page Editor			Bob DeMattia		K1IW
--------------------------

Don’t Forget!

Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIAOS Net.  Join us!  This is a good way to keep up with what is happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.

We need another net control!

If you would like to try your hand at Net Control contact me at W1DYJ@mmra.org  – we have a script you can use to start with.  This is good practice for a number of ham related operations, from emergency preparedness to contesting.

Current Net Control Operators:

Week 1	WA1JIM		Jimmy Devaire	
Week 2	???		OPEN	
Week 3	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	W1DYJ		Larry Banks
-------------------------

Newsletter Delivery
If you received this via US Mail, you should think about having it sent by eMail.  You will receive it earlier, it will be in color, and it may have MORE great content! Send your request to N1KJN@mmra.org.

Starting next year, US Mail delivery of the newsletter will be an additional $10/year.

Past Newsletters are available at http://www.mmra.org/
--------------------------

MMRA VE Sessions
3rd Saturday of each Month
9 AM at the
Marlboro Public Library
Contact: Bill Wade, K1IJ
781-891-9079
Evenings 6 to 10 PM,
Weekends 8 AM to 10 PM.
Accredited by the ARRL VEC
--------------------------

Calendar of Ham Radio Events

Public Service Events 
See this web site for contact information
http://purl.org/hamradio/publicservice/nediv

Apr 20		Hopkinton MA	Boston Marathon 
Apr 26		Groton MA	Groton Road Race 
Jul  3 		Fitchburg MA 	Longsjo Classic
Jul  4 		Princeton MA 	Longsjo Classic 
Jul  5 		Fitchburg MA 	Longsjo Classic
Jul 25 		Devens MA 	Memory Ride for Alzheimer's


New England Area Ham - Electronic Flea Markets 
See this web site for contact information
http://mit.edu/w1gsl/Public/ne-fleas

21 Mar	Pomfret CT	ECARA @CommSch
22 Mar	Southington CT	SARA @HS
28 Mar	Middletown NY	OCARC @Wallkill ComCtr
28 Mar	Lewiston ME	AARC ME Conv @Ramada
29 Mar	Framingham MA	FARA @KeefeSch
29 Mar	Henniker NH	CVRC @CommSch
18 Apr	Manchester NH	NEAntqRC @BingoCtr
18 Apr	S Portland ME	PAWA @AmLegion
18 Apr 	Gales Ferry CT 	RASON @Firehse
19 Apr	Cambridge MA	FLEA at MIT
26 Apr	Lindenhurst NY	GSBARC
1,2 May	Deerfield NH	NearFest @FG
9   May Lindenhurst NY 	GSBARC @FiremanPk
9   May Rensselaer NY 	EGARA
30 May 	Goshen CT 	SoBerksARC @Fairground
13 Jun 	Windsor CT 	VR+C Mus 115 Pierson LN
14 Jun 	Queens NY 	HoSARC
8  Aug 	Gales Ferry CT 	RASON @VFD
---------------------

End of Newsletter