The Minuteman
Volume 51    Number 2    November 2021
The Minuteman Repeater Association is a non-profit organization providing communications infrastructure and volunteers for community and emergency events.
----------

Membership Meeting
Wednesday, 17 November 2021   7:30—9:30 pm
Jason Peardon, W1HFP
An Amateur's Guide to Space Weather
Location: Marlborough Central Fire Station, Marlborough 
+ Zoom Teleconference

Many hams are involved in SKYWARN and take interest in observing and reporting the weather we experience here on earth. The weather we see each day occurs primarily in the troposphere and stratosphere. But weather also occurs in space. Driven largely by the Sun, space weather primarily deals with conditions in the magnetosphere, ionosphere, thermosphere and exosphere.  Space weather and heliophysics are an active and exciting field of study and observation, particularly for hams.
 
Jason will discuss the various contributors to space weather such as the solar wind, solar flares, coronal mass ejections, cycles of the sun, and coronal holes. He will also discuss the impacts that these things have on us here on earth, what this means to us as radio operators, and how you can observe and monitor space weather yourself.
 
Jason was lucky to have grown up initially with a x386 IBM clone PC and a dial-up connection. This spawned a 20+ year career in the IT field and counting. He has spent the majority of his career working at software companies and is currently employed as a Director of Cloud Infrastructure & Security for a large software-as-a-service organization developing HR software. Jason is an Eagle Scout, holds a BS degree in Information Systems from the University of Massachusetts Lowell, and resides in Hudson MA with his wife and 3 children.
----------

President’s Corner ~ David Hornbaker, N1DCH 

November is upon us!  Now is the time for all good Hams to make those last-minute, outdoor station
adjustments, preferably before the snow flies.

MMRA salutes its military veterans and thanks them for their services to our nation.

MMRA has resumed conducting Amateur Radio License Examinations. Ronald Rothman – WO1E has been appointed VEC Liaison. Our first test session was October 9th.  The next session will be Saturday, November 20th in Marlborough at the Marlborough Central Fire Station on Maple Street (RT 85).  You can contact ve@mmra.org for more information.    If you are a VE (ARRL VEC) and would like to help, contact Ron wo1e@mmra.org.   Note: the FCC requires all new applicants to have an FRN.  Social Security 
numbers are no longer accepted.  For more information, check out www.mmra.org/exam.html.

Check out MMRA’s newest repeater in Billerica,  W1DC, 147.120, PL 103.5. More information is available at  https://mmra.org/repeaters/BCA/.

Wednesday, November 17th, Jason – W1HFP will be presenting “An Amateur's Guide to Space Weather”, at the Marlborough Central Fire Station.  Everyone is welcome, so invite a friend and come out to 
Marlborough.  If you cannot make it out to Marlborough, the meeting will also be available on Zoom.

Mark your calendars!  The January MMRA meeting will be a SKYWARN Training presentation by 
Rob Macedo - KD1CY.  The meeting will be in Natick at New England Sci-Tec.

Membership renewal! All MMRA memberships expired in August.  Please check your profile and if your membership expired this year, please renew.  Renewals may be done on the website, or you can mail your renewal to Minuteman Repeater Association, PO Box 669, Stow, MA 01775-0669.  Please allow seven days for us to process your renewal. Please allow 14 days for renewals that are mailed.  While you're on the website (https://www.mmra.org) checking your expiration date, please verify your email address. We have had several email bounces recently.

Join us Tuesday nights at 8:00 PM for our weekly Technical Information and Other Stuff (TIaOS) net.  There will be a lively discussion on all sorts of HAM issues, including equipment, antennas, software, 
repeaters, and other stuff.  The main purpose is to test our ability to link up the repeaters in case of an emergency or, to support some event like a marathon.   You can also join via EchoLink, if your radio is a little under the weather.  See below for more information.

You can find out more information about how and when the repeaters are linked on the website (https://www.mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html).

Please remember to keep your profile up to date, especially if your email changes.  Note that if your 
callsign changes, send email to contact@mmra.org and we will update your callsign in the database.

Best wishes to all for a Happy Thanksgiving!
73
Dave – N1DCH
----------

Volunteer Examiner Update
Ron Rothman – WO1E ~ MMRA VE Liaison 

After 18 months of inactivity due to Covid-19, the MMRA Volunteer Examiner team held its first exam session.  On October 9th, 8 VE’s met at the Marlborough Central Fire Station  The VE’s included 
Ed – W1OED, Dave – N1DCH, Alan – K1ALL, Scott – NE1RD, Paul – N1IZ, Eric – KV1J and Joe- KA1GDQ.   It was great to see all of those who attended.  Unfortunately, there were no candidates at this session.  

Our next exam is being held at the Marlborough Central Fire Station on November 20th at 9:00 AM.  Setup is at 8:30 AM.  So far, one candidate has signed up. Thanks goes to Eric - KV1J for securing the location.

I would like to thank Bill Wade, K1IJ, for his years of service as VE Liaison.  Bill’s organization, planning and leadership has led the MMRA VE team to be one of the finest around.    ----------  

New MMRA Repeater in Billerica
Bruce Pigott ~ KC1US

The W1DC, 147.120 repeater in Billerica has been acquired from the 1200 Radio Club by the Minuteman Repeater Association.  Upgrades at the site and to the equipment are forthcoming. Old cables, antennas, and the sidearm will be removed from the tower and clamps added for the guy wires. This may help with the crunchies. The antenna will be replaced, if the problem persists. A new repeater and controller will be installed, plus a link radio to connect to the two HUBs. Equipment will be assembled during the Winter, and installed next Spring. When the new equipment is in place, the sub audible tone will change to 146.2Hz from 103.5Hz.

The Billerica repeater will be a stand alone, open system. Normally the Billerica Amateur Radio Society has a net on Wednesday at 8PM. It has been temporarily moved to the Westford repeater due to crunchies. Once upgrades are accomplished, the system will be linked to the Tuesday night Technical Information and Other Stuff Net.
----------

Missing MMRA Antenna
Dave Hornbaker ~ N1DCH

At the 2019 HamXposition, the last one in Boxboro, our 440 antenna was lent to someone to measure and copy during the pandemic.  The note with the call faded to unreadable.  This was discovered as we were setting up for the recent HamXposition in Marlborough.

If any readers know the whereabouts of this antenna, please email contact@mmra.org
----------

15 September 2021 Membership Meeting

Dave, N1DCH, called the meeting to order at 7:33 pm EDT at New England Sci-Tech, Natick.
In Person: Dave, N1DCH, president; Bob, K1IW, technical director; 
Ed, W1OED, member

Via ZOOM: Larry, W1DYJ, trustee; Kevin, K1KWP, treasurer; Jason, W1HFP, secretary; Ed, KC1ECD, member; John, KF1KI, member; Ron, WO1E, VE Liaison; Tom, KB1OQA, net control; John, WA1MDD, vice president; Roger, WA1NVC, director; Kevin, AE1EI, member; Mike, W1USN, trustee; Rob, N1BE, director

AGENDA
  VE exam sessions return
    Ron Rothman, WO1E, appointed VEC Liaison
    First Session 9:00 am October 9th, Marlborough Central Fire Station
    Contact Ron (WO1E@mmra.org) for more information
    Please tell your friends, who are interested in taking tests, that they must have photo IDs and FRNs.
    Note:  Social Security numbers are no longer accepted by the FCC.  Everyone must have an FRN

Note that we need VEs – if you are interested, check out this website for more information: https://www.arrl.org/become-an-arrl-ve.

W1DC – our newest repeater
   W1DC – Billerica, MA., 147.120 MHz (-600kHz); PL 103.5; unlinked currently
   Previously operated by “The 1200 Radio Club”, made up of Honeywell employees
   Upgrades planned this winter to align with MMRA standards

W1USN will be retrieving the Kenwood, Power Supply, and Link Radio in the next week or two and will get them to Bob – K1IW, who will be building the repeater over the winter.  We can plan on deployment sometime in April.  The existing machine will run as-is until then.

Repeater Update
   Controllers
     SCOM7330s are out of production.  SCOM has about fifty left.  
     There are six MMRA repeaters running on the older 7K model, all have the rare VYEX DAB upgrade.
        Marlborough East 53.81 / 29.68
        Lowell 442.25
        Brookline Remote Receiver  146.22
        Boston Transmitter 146.82
        Boston 900
        Marlborough 900
   Do we need to purchase enough 7330’s to standardize our repeaters?
   These are out of production and there are about 50 left.
   Cost of a 7330 is ~$550 and there may be a run on them from other clubs.

   220
      The new MX800 220 repeater for Burlington is ready to install
      Should we consider upgrading our other two ancient 220 repeaters, again to standardize?
      These are out of production and there are only six left .
      Cost of an MX800 is ~$450.
      The Board of Directors will discuss and decide if a vote of the membership is warranted.

Upcoming Meetings – will be detailed in the next newsletter
      We have added Philip Erickson, Ph.D., W1PJE, for our May annual meeting.  Phil gave a very well received Saturday dinner talk at HamXposition 

David Hornbaker – N1DCH
      Dave then gave his presentation.
     (A number of slides are included ion the PDF version of this newsletter.)

Meeting adjourned at 9:03 pm EDT		Submitted by Larry Banks, W1DYJ
---------

Recap of Northeast HamXpostition,
the 2021 ARRL New England Division Convention
   by Bob Inderbitzen, NQ1R, ARRL Product Development Manager
						Your editor thanks the ARRL

The annual Northeast HamXposition was held on September 10 &12 and hosted the 2021 ARRL New England Division Convention. This was the first time the annual event was held at the Best Western Hotel in Marlborough, Massachusetts.

The ARRL ‘team’ included Vice President Mike Raisbeck, K1TWF, New England Division 
Director Fred Hopengarten, K1VR, Vice Director Phil Temples, K9HI, Field Services Manager Mike Walters, W8ZY, Senior Member Services Representative Kim McNeill, KM1IPA, 
Director of Operations Bob Naumann, W5OV, and Product Development Manager Bob Inderbitzen, NQ1R. In addition, there were several Section Managers and other Field 
Organization volunteers.

Mike Raisbeck and Phil Temples did double-duty, serving as the convention’s Vice Chair and Program chair, respectively.

Although there were some last-minute cancellations from a handful of exhibitors and 
presenters, attendance was very good, though smaller than the 2019 show.  W1 QSL 
Bureau Co-Manager Eric Williams, KV1J, shared that “considering the COVID concerns, I feel that this was remarkably good attendance.”

Among the radio club and organization booths, the Nashua Area Radio Society (New Hampshire) demonstrated a variety of activities to encourage new licensees to become radioactive. An interactive exhibit was also hosted by Sci-Tech Amateur Radio Society of 
Natick, MA, which operates from the STEM educational center and Makerspace hosted by New England Sci-Tech. An ARRL Volunteer Examiner team tested 13 new and upgraded license candidates, including unlicensed individuals who passed exams for their General and Extra Class tickets.

Eric Williams and his team of volunteers offered great support to anyone seeking W1 
Bureau needs. Their exhibit also hosted Bob Naumann who checked DXCC and other ARRL Award applications throughout the convention.

On Friday night, Adrian Ciuperca, KO8SCA, presented at the DXCC/Contest Dinner, recapping the DXPedition and IARU Contest activities and activations from Market Reef and Aland Islands.

Bob Inderbitzen gave the keynote address on Saturday morning which included a 9/11 
tribute he had prepared, and Color Guard supported by local Scouts. He also attended a Youth Panel and met with many young hams, parents, and their advisors throughout the event, including an undergraduate student in mechanical engineering from Olin College of Engineering in Needham, MA, Zachary Sherman, KC1NXK – exhibiting for Olin Collegiate Amateur Radio Club.

The banquet speaker was Dr. Philip J. Erickson, W1PJE, of Haystack Observatory, a 
multidisciplinary radio observatory operated by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He discussed HamSCI’s latest ionospheric science investigations with his group at Haystack covering international, national, and even local aspects of amateur ionospheric science supported in partnership with radio amateurs and scientists. 

During the banquet, Bob Inderbitzen was recognized by Emcee Mike Raisbeck as the convention’s first scholarship winner (1990).

An ARRL Membership Forum was held on Saturday, supported by Fred Hopengarten, Phil Temples, Mike Walters, and ARRL Communications Counsel Dave Siddall, K3ZJ – who was in the area and attended the convention. Mike Walters also led a Section Manager & 
Affiliated Club Coordinator Forum. The ARRL staff team returned from Marlborough with 72 membership applications (127 in 2019); 22% of these from new or previous members. They also returned with 36 award applications and endorsements – including 24 for DXCC and 10 for VUCC.

     [Editor’s note: W1PJE is our May Annual Meeting speaker.]
----------

20 October 2021 Business Meeting — Minutes

Brought to order by President Dave, N1DCH, at 7:32 pm at New England SciTech

Present: Dave, N1DCH; Bob, K1IW; Bruce, KC1US; Ron, WO1E

Via ZOOM:  Bob, N1BE; Roger, WA1NVC; John, KF1KI; Jon, K1BTZ; Steven, KC1LPZ;  James, KC1NBN; Steve, K8ZBE; Steven Lively; Jason, W1HFP; John, WA1MDD; Larry, W1DYJ

Agenda
After introductions, Dave, N1DCH, expressed thanks to K5TEC and New England SciTech for once again hosting our business meeting.

MMRA VE Session Status – Ron, WO1E
   First session was held at Marlborough Central Fire Station on October 9
      This turned out to be a “dry-run”
      Eight VEs showed up, but no test-takers
      Lack of PR was attributed – this will change
   The next session will be November 20 at Marlborough Central Fire Station
   We need to find a permanent testing location and schedule testing sessions for the remainder of the membership year
   We would like to investigate electronic testing and submission
      We would need several laptops donated, hopefully identical to reduce the maintenance issues
      If anyone knows of an opportunity for laptop donations, let us know
   Ron, WO1E, will submit an article to the newsletter

Repeater Status – Bob, K1IW
   Belmont link signal quality improved with new antenna donated by W1DYJ
      Back-story: Bob, K1IW, estimated from his measurements that an additional 3 dB would increase the link signal strength enough to be OK
      Larry, W1DYJ, had a “spare” 6-element 440 yagi, spec’d at 4 dB more than the existing 
3-element link yagi
      It worked.  It’s nice when practice matches theory!
   Lowell had an internet disruption
      Installed new Tello/Mifi and upgraded 7K controller to 7330 (the one pulled from Burlington)
      Both the Mifi and 7330 used in Lowell were originally destined for Billerica.
      The 7330 will be covered by the purchase approved the recent membership vote.
      We will purchase another Mifi setup under the maintenance budget since it was essentially used to repair the Lowell internet connection.
   A site survey at Brookline found the MMRA remote receiver antenna lying on the roof.  This survey also found that the ground system for MMRA antennas was non-existent. The antenna has been put back up. Lightning arrestors and cables have been purchased and will be installed sometime after the Marathon of October 2021.
   All other repeaters appear to be running normally

Wachusett Mountain Repeater, W3DEC – John, KF1KI
   The W3DEC 448.625 repeater used to be linked to the MMRA network until it failed a few years ago
      W3DEC moved to Pennsylvania a number of years ago and no longer maintains the repeater
      W1SEX is the current trustee
      Access/maintenance is difficult – there are FEMA security issues involved
   John, KF1KI, has been in conversation with W1SEX concerning linking it again
       W1SEX states that he is willing to make it work again
      Linking it is a trivial issue for the MMRA
      The consensus of all meeting participants was that linking again would be welcome
   John, KF1KI, will engage again with W1SEX to encourage him to resurrect the repeater

Upcoming meetings
   November Membership Meeting – Jason – W1HFP
      Space Weather
      Marlborough Central Fire Station, Marlborough & Zoom Teleconference
   December  Business Meeting
      New England Sci-Tech, Natick & Zoom Teleconference
   January Membership Meeting – Rob Macedo – KD1CY
      SKYWARN Training
      New England Sci-Tech, Natick & Zoom Teleconference
   February Business Meeting
      New England Sci-Tech, Natick & Zoom Teleconference
   March Membership Meeting –Tim Duffy –  K3LR
      Grounding and Bonding
      New England Sci-Tech, Natick & Zoom Teleconference
   April Business Meeting
      New England Sci-Tech, Natick & Zoom Teleconference
   May Membership & Annual Meeting – Phil Erickson – W1PJE
       Amateur Radio's Emerging Role in Investigating Space Weather Within near-Earth space
       TBD & Zoom Teleconference

Newsletter
      Deadline: Friday, 29 October
      Email W1DYJ@mmra.org or newsletter@mmra.org

Meeting adjourned at 8:18.						Submitted by Larry Banks, W1DYJ
----------

Information Requested — Bill Drago ~ N1GWY

enjoy working with/on old stuff.  I am looking for any information on a Motorola phone.
The model number is C200E3145.  I am looking for a manual and any other related information like software or a programming cable or whatever I can get so I can put this back in service.
------

Upcoming MMRA Meetings
Note: Meeting locations and times are subject to change.
Consult the MMRA website for the most up-to-date information. Teleconference numbers will be available one week before a business meeting: if you wish to attend, email contact@mmra.org.


Wednesday, 17 November ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
Space Weather ~ Jason Peardon, W1HFP
Marlborough Central Fire Station, Marlborough + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 15 December – Business Meeting
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 19 January ~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
SKYWARN Training ~ Robert Macedo, KD1CY
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 16 February – Business Meeting ~ 7:30
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 16 March~ Membership Meeting ~ 7:30
Grounding and Bonding ~ K3LR 
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 20 April – Business Meeting ~ 7:30
New England Sci-Tech, Natick + Zoom Teleconference

Wednesday, 18 May ~ Annual Membership/Elections Meeting ~ 7:30
Amateur Radio's Emerging Role in Investigating Space Weather Within near-Earth space — Phil Erickson – W1PJE
Location TBD + Zoom Teleconference
------

Don’t Forget! Join Us.
Every Tuesday @ 8 PM
Technical, Informational and Other Stuff Net

The MMRA’s repeaters are linked Tuesday nights for the TIOS Net.  Keep up with what’s happening in the MMRA and ask your ham related questions.  

Net Control Operators:
Week 1	W1DYJ		Larry Banks	
Week 2	KB1OQA		Tom Turner	
Week 3 	KC1CLA		Ed Curley
Week 4	K1KWP		Kevin Paetzold	
Week 5 	K1BTZ		Jonathan Traum
	To connect using Echolink / IRLP during the Net: 
Echolink Conference *NEW-ENG2*
IRLP node 4133

NOTE: we need another NC to be available as a substitute.  If you are interested, email W1DYJ@mmra.org
----------

MMRA Leaders

------------
Executive Board — Officers
President	Dave Hornbaker 	N1DCH 
Vice President	John Spencer	WA1MDD
Secretary	Jason Peardon 	W1HFP
Treasurer	Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
Clerk 		OPEN	————

Executive Board — Directors
Director  »2023	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
Director  »2023	Roger Coulson	WA1NVC
Director  »2022	Rob Evans	N1BE
Director  »2022	James Lee	N1DDK

Technical Officer	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

President Emeritus	Bob DeMattia	K1IW

Technical Officer Emeritus  Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI

Repeater Trustees
* Belmont 145.43	Ed Curley	KC1CLA
* Billerica 147.12	Mike Rioux	W1USN
* Boston 146.82		John Mullaney 	K1BOS
* Boston 927.0625	Rick Zach	K1RJZ
* Brookline 145.16	Joyce DeMattia	K1IWW
* Brookline Rcv 146.82	Bob Phinney	K5TEC
* Burlington 224.88	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* Hopkinton 449.575	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough 53.81	Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Marlborough: 29.68, 144.39, 147.27, 223.94, 448.225, 
     449.925, 927.70  Lowell 442.25
	all as W1MRA	Bill Northup  	N1QPR
* Mendon 146.61		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* N. Reading 146.715	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* N. Reading 446.775	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Quincy 224.40		Bill Dunn	N1KUG
* Quincy 146.67		Bryan Cerqua	W1BRI
* Weston 146.79		Rob Evans	N1BE
* Weston 224.70		Eddie Mulhern	N1NOM
* Weston 442.70		Dave Hornbaker	N1DCH

Additional, non-Voting
* Newsletter Editor	Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Emerg. Coord.		Kevin Paetzold	K1KWP
* Pub. Serv. Coord.	Bruce Pigott	KC1US
* VEC Liaison		Ron Rothman	WO1E
* Net Manager		Larry Banks	W1DYJ
* Web Page Editor	Bob DeMattia	K1IW
* Social Media Coordinator  Steve Umans	K8ZBE

                       * Appointed
----------

Contacting the MMRA

Members: mmra@groups.io
Note: This may take some time. 
You must be approved by the moderator.


Officers: contact@mmra.org

Control Ops: control-ops@mmra.org

www: http://www.mmra.org/
twitter: @mmraham 
facebook: https://www.facebook.com/mmraham
----------

MMRA VE SESSIONS
Check out https://www.mmra.org/exam.html or email  ve@mmra.org 

Ask your friends to become a member 
Just let them know that it is not fully automated.  Although they can log into the MMRA website immediately, 
they need to be manually processed.  This could take up to week.

Previous issues of the MMRA Newsletter are available at: www.mmra.org > Newsletter Archive (on the left)

If you haven't updated your MMRA profile in a while, now is the time! 
Go to < MMRA.ORG > and log in to do so.
----------

Waltham Wranglers Swap Net
The MMRA Network connects to this swap net every Wednesday at 8:45 pm local and promptly at 9:59 pm switches over to the Heavy Hitters Traffic Net.  

Heavy Hitters Traffic Net
This net is active on our repeaters Sunday through Friday evenings from 10—11 PM.

In both cases, the repeaters that are active are:
2m:  Mendon (61), Boston (82), North Reading (715), Quincy (67) and Marlborough (27) 
220: Quincy (224.40), Marlborough (223.94)
440: Marlborough (449.925), North Reading (446.775), Hopkinton (449.575)
----------

Get connected on the MMRA Repeater System ~ Dave Hornbaker N1DCH

What is the best way to get connected on the MMRA repeater system?  Try announcing yourself!  Just say your call sign followed by "listening".   If you want, you can include the last 3 digits of the repeater frequency. For example, "N1DCH listening" or maybe "N1DCH listening on 925", you may very well get a response.  Try to connect by announcing yourself several times.

Most of the time, Marlborough Hub1 (449.495) is linked to the following repeaters, Boston (146.820), North Reading (446.775), Mendon (146.610), Lowell (442.250), and Hopkinton (449.575).  Remember that when the repeaters are linked, you need to wait two or three seconds after you key up and before you speak. This is especially
important on the TIaOS net on Tuesday when most of the repeaters are linked.

You can also link (and delink) the repeaters yourself.  See the information you received when you became a 
member, or check the User Control Codes once you log into the MMRA web.

Try one of the non-linked repeaters too. There are Hams monitoring them as well. For more information on the repeater network and how it is linked at various times, check out https://mmra.org/repeaters/repeater_linking.html.
----------
END OF NEWSLETTER
